Day 222:

Reading Isaiah, chapters ['37', '38', '39', '40']:

  Chapter 37.

    1: And it came to pass, when king Ezechias had heard it, that he rent his garments and covered himself with sackcloth, and went into the house of the Lord. 
    2: And he sent Eliacim who was over the house, and Sobna the scribe, and the ancients of the priests covered with sackcloth, to Isaias the son of Amos the prophet. 
    3: And they said to him: Thus saith Ezechias: This day is a day of tribulation, and of rebuke, and of blasphemy: for the children are come to the birth, and there is not strength to bring forth. 
    4: It may be the Lord thy God will hear the words of Rabsaces, whom the king of the Assyrians his master hath sent to blaspheme the living God, and to reproach with words which the Lord thy God hath heard: wherefore lift up thy prayer for the remnant that is left. 
    5: And the servants of Ezechias came to Isaias.
    6: And Isaias said to them: Thus shall you say to your master: Thus saith the Lord: Be not afraid of the words that thou hast heard, with which the servants of the king of the Assyrians have blasphemed me. 
    7: Behold, I will send a spirit upon him, and he shall hear a message, and shall return to his own country, and I will cause him to fall by the sword in his own country. 
    8: And Rabsaces returned, and found the king of the Assyrians besieging Lobna. For he had heard that he was departed from Lachis. 
    9: And he heard say about Tharaca the king of Ethiopia: He is come forth to fight against thee. And when he heard it, he sent messengers to Ezechias, saying: 
    10: Thus shall you speak to Ezechias the king of Juda, saying: Let not thy God deceive thee, in whom thou trustest, saying: Jerusalem shall not be given into the hands of the king of the Assyrians.
    11: Behold thou hast heard all that the kings of the Assyrians hare done to all countries which they have destroyed, and canst thou be delivered? 
    12: Have the gods of the nations delivered them whom my fathers have destroyed, Gozam, and Haram, and Reseph, and the children of Eden, that were in Thalassar? 
    13: Where is the king of Emath, and the king of Arphad, and the king of the city of Sepharvaim, of Ana, and of Ava? 
    14: And Ezechias took the letter from the hand of the messengers, and read it, and went up to the house of the Lord, and Ezechias spread it before the Lord. 
    15: And Ezechias prayed to the Lord, saying:
    16: O Lord of hosts, God of Israel, who sittest upon the cherubims, thou alone art the God of all the kingdoms of the earth, thou hast made heaven and earth. 
    17: Incline, O Lord, thy ear, and hear: open, O Lord, thy eyes, and see, and hear all the words of Sennacherib, which he hath sent to blaspheme the living God. 
    18: For of a truth, O Lord, the kings of the Assyrians have laid waste lands, and their countries. 
    19: And they have cast their gods into the fire, for they were not gods, but the works of men's hands, of wood and stone: and they broke them in pieces. 
    20: And now, O Lord our God, save us out of his hand: and let all the kingdoms of the earth know, that thou only art the Lord.
    21: And Isaias the son of Amos sent to Ezechias, saying: Thus saith the Lord the God of Israel: For the prayer thou hast made to me concerning Sennacherib the king of the Assyrians: 
    22: This is the word which the Lord hath spoken of him: The virgin the daughter of Sion hath despised thee, and laughed thee to scorn: the daughter of Jerusalem hath wagged the head after thee. 
    23: Whom hast thou reproached, and whom hast thou blasphemed, and against whom hast thou exalted thy voice, and lifted up thy eyes on high? Against the Holy One of Israel. 
    24: By the hand of thy servants thou hast reproached the Lord: and hast said: With the multitude of my chariots I have gone up to the height of the mountains, to the top of Libanus: and I will cut down its tall cedars, and its choice fir trees, and will enter to the top of its height, to the forest of its Carmel. 
    25: I have digged, and drunk water, and have dried up with the sole of my foot, all the rivers shut up in banks.
    26: Hast thou not heard what I have done to him of old? from the days of old I have formed it: and now I have brought it to effect: and it hath come to pass that hills fighting together, and fenced cities should be destroyed. 
    27: The inhabitants of them were weak of hand, they trembled, and were confounded: they became like the grass of the field, and the herb of the pasture, and like the grass of the housetops, which withered before it was ripe. 
    28: I know thy dwelling, and thy going out, and thy coming in, and thy rage against me. 
    29: When thou wast mad against me, thy pride came up to my ears: therefore I will put a ring in thy nose, and a bit between thy lips, and I will turn thee back by the way by which thou camest. 
    30: But to thee this shall be a sign: Eat this year the things that spring of themselves, and in the second year eat fruits: but in the third year sow and reap, and giant vineyards, and eat the fruit of them.
    31: And that which shall be saved of the house of Juda, and which is left, shall take root downward, and shall bear fruit upward: 
    32: For out of Jerusalem shall go forth a, remnant, and salvation from mount Sion: the zeal of the Lord of hosts shall do this. 
    33: Wherefore thus saith the Lord concerning the king of the Assyrians: He shall not come into this city, nor shoot an arrow into it, nor come before it with shield, nor cast a trench about it. 
    34: By the way that he came, he shall return, and into this city he shall not come, saith the Lord. 
    35: And I will protect this city, and will save it for my own sake, and for the sake of David my servant.
    36: And the angel of the Lord went out, and slew in the camp of the Assyrians a hundred and eighty-five thousand. And they arose in the morning, and behold they were all dead corpses. 
    37: And Sennacherib the king of the Assyrians went out and departed, and returned, and dwelt in Ninive. 
    38: And it came to pass, as he was worshipping in the temple of Nesroch his god, that Adramelech and Sarasar his sons slew him with the sword: and they fled into the land of Ararat, and Asarhaddon his son reigned in his stead.

  Chapter 38.

    1: In those days Ezechias was sick even to death, and Isaias the son of Amos the prophet came unto him, and said to him: Thus saith the Lord: Take order with thy house, for thou shalt die, and not live. 
    2: And Ezechias turned his face toward the wall, and prayed to the Lord, 
    3: And said: I beseech thee, O Lord, remember how I have walked before thee in truth, and with a perfect heart, and have done that which is good in thy sight. And Ezechias wept with great weeping. 
    4: And the word of the Lord came to Isaias, saying: 
    5: Go and say to Ezechias: Thus saith the Lord the God of David thy father: I have heard thy prayer, and I have seen thy tears: behold I will add to thy days fifteen years:
    6: And I will deliver thee and this city out of the hand of the king of the Assyrians, and I will protect it. 
    7: And this shall be a sign to thee from the Lord, that the Lord will do this word which he hath spoken: 
    8: Behold I will bring again the shadow of the lines, by which it is now gone down in the sun dial of Achaz with the sun, ten lines backward. And the sun returned ten lines by the degrees by which it was gone down. 
    9: The writing of Ezechias king of Juda, when he had been sick, and was recovered of his sickness. 
    10: I said: In the midst of my days I shall go to the gates of hell: I sought for the residue of my years.
    11: I said: I shall not see the Lord God in the land of the living. I shall behold man no more, nor the inhabitant of rest. 
    12: My generation is at an end, and it is rolled away from me, as a shepherd's tent. My life is cut off, as by a weaver: whilst I was yet but beginning, he cut me off: from morning even to night thou wilt make an end of me. 
    13: I hoped till morning, as a lion so hath he broken all my bones: from morning even to night thou wilt make an end of me. 
    14: I will cry like a young swallow, I will meditate like a dove: my eyes are weakened looking upward: Lord, I suffer violence, answer thou for me. 
    15: What shall I say, or what shall he answer for me, whereas he himself hath done it? I will recount to thee all my years in the bitterness of my soul.
    16: O Lord, if man's life be such, and the life of my spirit be in such things as these, thou shalt correct me, and make me to live. 
    17: Behold in peace is my bitterness most bitter: but thou hast delivered my soul that it should not perish, thou hast cast all my sins behind thy back. 
    18: For hell shall not confess to thee, neither shall death praise thee: nor shall they that go down into the pit, look for thy truth. 
    19: The living, the living, he shall give praise to thee, as I do this day: the father shall make thy truth known to the children. 
    20: O Lord, save me, and we will sing our psalms all the days of our life in the house of the Lord.
    21: Now Isaias had ordered that they should take a lump of figs, and lay it as it plaster upon the wound, and that he should be healed. 
    22: And Ezechias had said: What shall be the sign that I shall go up to the house of the Lord?

  Chapter 39.

    1: At that time Merodach Baladan, the son of Baladan king of Babylon, sent letters and presents to Ezechias: for he had heard that he had been sick and was recovered. 
    2: And Ezechias rejoiced at their coming, and he shewed them the storehouses of his aromatical spices, and of the silver, and of the gold, and of the sweet odours, and of the precious ointment, and all the storehouses of his furniture, and all things that were found in his treasures. There was nothing in his house, nor in all his dominion that Ezechias shewed them not. 
    3: Then Isaias the prophet came to king Ezechias, and said to him: What said these men, and from whence came they to thee? And Ezechias said: From a far country they came to me, from Babylon. 
    4: And he said: What saw they in thy house? And Ezechias said: All things that are in my house have they seen, there was not any thing which I have not shewn them in my treasures. 
    5: And Isaias said to Ezechias: Rear the word of the Lord of hosts.
    6: Behold the days shall come, that all that is in thy house, and that thy fathers have laid up in store until this day, shall be carried away into Babylon: there shall not any thing be left, saith the Lord. 
    7: And of thy children, that shall issue from thee, whom thou shalt beget, they shall take away, and they shall be eunuchs in the palace of the king of Babylon. 
    8: And Ezechias said to Isaias: The word of the Lord, which he hath spoken, is good. And he said: Only let peace and truth be in my days.

  Chapter 40.

    1: Be comforted, be comforted, my people, saith your God. 
    2: Speak ye to the heart of Jerusalem, and call to her: for her evil is come to an end, her iniquity is forgiven: she hath received of the hand of the Lord double for all her sins. 
    3: The voice of one crying in the desert: Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make straight in the wilderness the paths of our God. 
    4: Every valley shall be exalted, and every mountain and hill shall be made low, and the crooked shall become straight, and the rough ways plain. 
    5: And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh together shall see, that the mouth of the Lord hath spoken.
    6: The voice of one, saying: Cry. And I said: What shall I cry? All flesh is grass, and all the glory thereof as the flower of the field. 
    7: The grass is withered, and the flower is fallen, because the spirit of the Lord hath blown upon it. Indeed the people is grass: 
    8: The grass is withered, and the flower is fallen: but the word of our Lord endureth for ever. 
    9: Get thee up upon a high mountain, thou that bringest good tidings to Sion: lift up thy voice with strength, thou that bringest good tidings to Jerusalem: lift it up, fear not. Say to the cities of Juda: Behold your God: 
    10: Behold the Lord God shall come with strength, and his arm shall rule: Behold his reward is with him and his work is before him.
    11: He shall feed his flock like a shepherd: he shall gather together the lambs with his arm, and shall take them up in his bosom, and he himself shall carry them that are with young. 
    12: Who hath measured the waters in the hollow of his hand, and weighed the heavens with his palm? who hath poised with three fingers the bulk of the earth, and weighed the mountains in scales, and the hills in a balance? 
    13: Who hath forwarded the spirit of the Lord? or who hath been his counsellor, and hath taught him? 
    14: With whom hath he consulted, and who hath instructed him, and taught him the path of justice, and taught him knowledge, and shewed him the way of understanding? 
    15: Behold the Gentiles are as a drop of a bucket, and are counted as the smallest grain of a balance: behold the islands are as a little dust.
    16: And Libanus shall not be enough to burn, nor the beasts thereof sufficient for a burnt offering. 
    17: All nations are before him as if they had no being at all, and are counted to him as nothing, and vanity. 
    18: To whom then have you likened God? or what image will you make for him? 
    19: Hath the workman cast a graven statue? or hath the goldsmith formed it with gold, or the silversmith with plates of silver? 
    20: He hath chosen strong wood, and that will not rot: the skillful workman seeketh how he may set up an idol that may not be moved.
    21: Do you not know? hath it not been heard? hath it not been told you from the beginning? have you not understood the foundations of the earth? 
    22: It is he that sitteth upon the globe of the earth, and the inhabitants thereof are as locusts: he that stretcheth out the heavens as nothing, and spreadeth them out as a tent to dwell in. 
    23: He that bringeth the searchers of secrets to nothing, that hath made the judges of the earth as vanity. 
    24: And surely their stock was neither planted, nor sown, nor rooted in the earth: suddenly he hath blown upon them, and they are withered, and a whirlwind shall take them away as stubble. 
    25: And to whom have ye likened me, or made me equal, saith the Holy One?
    26: Lift up your eyes on high, and see who hath created these things: who bringeth out their host by number, and calleth them all by their names: by the greatness of his might, and strength, and power, not one of them was missing. 
    27: Why sayest thou, O Jacob, and speakest, O Israel: My way is hid from the Lord, and my judgment is passed over from my God? 
    28: Knowest thou not, or hast thou not heard? the Lord is the everlasting God, who hath created the ends of the earth: he shall not faint, nor labour, neither is there any searching out of his wisdom. 
    29: It is he that giveth strength to the weary, and increaseth force and might to them that are not. 
    30: Youths shall faint, and labour, and young men shall fall by infirmity.
    31: But they that hope in the Lord shall renew their strength, they shall take wings as eagles, they shall run and not be weary, they shall walk and not faint.

End of day 222.