Day 155:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['45', '46', '47', '48']:

  Chapter 45.

    1: Unto the end, for the sons of Core, for the hidden. 
    2: Our God is our refuge and strength: a helper in troubles, which have found us exceedingly. 
    3: Therefore we will not fear, when the earth shall be troubled; and the mountains shall be removed into the heart of the sea. 
    4: Their waters roared and were troubled: the mountains were troubled with his strength. 
    5: The stream of the river maketh the city of God joyful: the most High hath sanctified his own tabernacle.
    6: God is in the midst thereof, it shall not be moved: God will help it in the morning early. 
    7: Nations were troubled, and kingdoms were bowed down: he uttered his voice, the earth trembled. 
    8: The Lord of armies is with us: the God of Jacob is our protector. 
    9: Come and behold ye the works of the Lord: what wonders he hath done upon earth, 
    10: Making wars to cease even to the end of the earth. He shall destroy the bow, and break the weapons: and the shield he shall burn in the fire.
    11: Be still and see that I am God; I will be exalted among the nations, and I will be exalted in the earth. 
    12: The Lord of armies is with us: the God of Jacob is our protector.

  Chapter 46.

    1: Unto the end, for the sons of Core. 
    2: O clap your hands, all ye nations: shout unto God with the voice of Joy, 
    3: For the Lord is high, terrible: a great king over all the earth. 
    4: He hath subdued the people under us; and the nations under our feet. 
    5: He hath chosen for us his inheritance the beauty of Jacob which he hath loved.
    6: God is ascended with jubilee, and the Lord with the sound of trumpet. 
    7: Sing praises to our God, sing ye: sing praises to our king, sing ye. 
    8: For God is the king of all the earth: sing ye wisely. 
    9: God shall reign over the nations: God sitteth on his holy throne. 
    10: The princes of the people are gathered together, with the God of Abraham: for the strong gods of the earth are exceedingly exalted.

  Chapter 47.

    1: A psalm of a canticle, for the sons of Core, on the second day of the week. 
    2: Great is the Lord, and exceedingly to be praised in the city of our God, in his holy mountain. 
    3: With the joy of the whole earth is mount Sion founded, on the sides of the north, the city of the great king. 
    4: In her houses shall God be known, when he shall protect her. 
    5: For behold the kings of the earth assembled themselves: they gathered together.
    6: So they saw, and they wondered, they were troubled, they were moved: 
    7: Trembling took hold of them. There were pains as of a woman in labour. 
    8: With a vehement wind thou shalt break in pieces the ships of Tharsis. 
    9: As we have heard, so have we seen, in the city of the Lord of hosts, in the city of our God: God hath founded it for ever. 
    10: We have received thy mercy, O God, in the midst of thy temple.
    11: According to thy name, O God, so also is thy praise unto the ends of the earth: thy right hand is full of justice. 
    12: Let mount Sion rejoice, and the daughters of Juda be glad; because of thy judgments, O Lord. 
    13: Surround Sion, and encompass her: tell ye in her towers. 
    14: Set your hearts on her strength; and distribute her houses, that ye may relate it in another generation. 
    15: For this is God, our God unto eternity, and for ever and ever: he shall rule us for evermore.

  Chapter 48.

    1: Unto the end, a psalm for the sons of Core. 
    2: Hear these things, all ye nations: give ear, all ye inhabitants of the world. 
    3: All you that are earthborn, and you sons of men: both rich and poor together. 
    4: My mouth shall speak wisdom: and the meditation of my heart understanding. 
    5: I will incline my ear to a parable; I will open my proposition on the psaltery.
    6: Why shall I fear in the evil day? the iniquity of my heel shall encompass me. 
    7: They that trust in their own strength, and glory in the multitude of their riches, 
    8: No brother can redeem, nor shall man redeem: he shall not give to God his ransom, 
    9: Nor the price of the redemption of his soul: and shall labour for ever, 
    10: And shall still live unto the end.
    11: He shall not see destruction, when he shall see the wise dying: the senseless and the fool shall perish together: And they shall leave their riches to strangers: 
    12: And their sepulchres shall be their houses for ever. Their dwelling places to all generations: they have called their lands by their names. 
    13: And man when he was in honour did not understand; he is compared to senseless beasts, and is become like to them. 
    14: This way of theirs is a stumblingblock to them: and afterwards they shall delight in their mouth. 
    15: They are laid in hell like sheep: death shall feed upon them. And the just shall have dominion over them in the morning; and their help shall decay in hell from their glory.
    16: But God will redeem my soul from the hand of hell, when he shall receive me. 
    17: Be not thou afraid, when a man shall be made rich, and when the glory of his house shall be increased. 
    18: For when he shall die he shall take nothing away; nor shall his glory descend with him. 
    19: For in his lifetime his soul will be blessed: and he will praise thee when thou shalt do well to him. 
    20: He shall go in to the generations of his fathers: and he shall never see light.
    21: Man when he was in honour did not understand: he hath been compared to senseless beasts, and made like to them.

End of day 155.