Day 18:

Reading Exodus, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: Then all the multitude of the children of Israel setting forward from the desert of Sin, by their mansions, according to the word of the Lord, encamped in Raphidim, where there was no water for the people to drink. 
    2: And they chode with Moses, and said: Give us water, that we may drink. And Moses answered them: Why chide you with me? Wherefore do you tempt the Lord? 
    3: So the people were thirsty there for want of water, and murmured against Moses, saying: Why didst thou make us go forth out of Egypt, to kill us and our children, and our beasts with thirst? 
    4: And Moses cried to the Lord, saying: What shall I do to this people? Yet a little more and they will stone me. 
    5: And the Lord said to Moses: Go before the people, and take with thee of the ancients of Israel: and take in thy hand the rod wherewith thou didst strike the river, and go.
    6: Behold I will stand there before thee, upon the rock Horeb: and thou shalt strike the rock, and water shall come out of it that the people may drink. Moses did so before the ancients of Israel: 
    7: And he called the name of that place Temptation, because the chiding of the children of Israel, and for that they tempted the Lord, saying: Is the Lord amongst us or not? 
    8: And Amalec came, and fought against Israel in Raphidim. 
    9: And Moses said to Josue: Choose out men: and go out and fight against Amalec: tomorrow I will stand on the top of the hill having the rod of God in my hand. 
    10: Josue did as Moses had spoken, and he fought against Amalec; but Moses, and Aaron, and Hur went up upon the top of the hill.
    11: And when Moses lifted up his hands, Israel overcame: but if he let them down a little, Amalec overcame. 
    12: And Moses' hands were heavy: so they took a stone, and put under him, and he sat on it: and Aaron and Hur stayed up his hands on both sides. And it came to pass that his hands were not weary until sunset. 
    13: And Josue put Amalec and his people to flight, by the edge of the sword. 
    14: And the Lord said to Moses: Write this for a memorial in a book, and deliver it to the ears of Josue: for I will destroy the memory of Amalec from under heaven. 
    15: And Moses built an altar: and called the name thereof, The Lord my exaltation, saying:
    16: Because the hand of the throne of the Lord, and the war of the Lord shall be against Amalec, from generation to generation.

  Chapter 18.

    1: And when Jethro the priest of Madian, the kinsman of Moses, had heard all the things that God had done to Moses, and to Israel his people, and that the Lord had brought forth Israel out of Egypt, 
    2: He took Sephora the wife of Moses whom he had sent back: 
    3: And her two sons, of whom one was called Gersam, his father saying: I have been a stranger in a foreign country. 
    4: And the other Eliezer: For the God of my father, said he, is my helper, and hath delivered me from the sword of Pharao. 
    5: And Jethro the kinsman of Moses came with his sons and his wife, to Moses into the desert, where he was camped by the mountain of God.
    6: And he sent word to Moses, saying: I Jethro thy kinsman come to thee, and thy wife, and thy two sons with her. 
    7: And he went out to meet his kinsman, and worshipped and kissed him: and they saluted one another with words of peace. And when he was come into the tent, 
    8: Moses told his kinsman all that the Lord had done to Pharao, and the Egyptians, in favour of Israel: and all the labour which had befallen them in the journey, and that the Lord had delivered them. 
    9: And Jethro rejoiced for all the good things that the Lord had done to Israel, because he had delivered them out of the hands of the Egyptians. 
    10: And he said: Blessed is the Lord, who hath delivered you out of the hand of Pharao, and out of the hand of the Egyptians, who hath delivered his people out of the hand of Egypt.
    11: Now I know that the Lord is great above all gods: because they dealt proudly against them. 
    12: So Jethro the kinsman of Moses offered holocausts and sacrifices to God: and Aaron and all the ancients of Israel came, to eat bread with them before God. 
    13: And the next day Moses sat, to judge the people, who stood by Moses from morning until night. 
    14: And when his kinsman had seen all things that he did among the people, he said: What is it that thou dost among the people? Why sittest thou alone, and all the people wait from morning till night. 
    15: And Moses answered him: The people come to me to seek the judgment of God.
    16: And when any controversy falleth out among them, they come to me to judge between them, and to shew the precepts of God, and his laws. 
    17: But he said: The thing thou dost is not good. 
    18: Thou are spent with foolish labour, both thou and this people that is with thee: the business is above thy strength, thou alone canst not bear it. 
    19: But hear my words and counsels, and God shall be with thee. Be thou to the people in those things that pertain to God, to bring their words to him: 
    20: And to shew the people the ceremonies and the manner of worshipping, and the way wherein they ought to walk, and the work that they ought to do.
    21: And provide out of all the people able men, such as fear God, in whom there is truth, and that hate avarice, and appoint of them rulers of thousands, and of hundreds, and of fifties, and of tens. 
    22: Who may judge the people at all times: and when any great matter soever shall fall out, let them refer it to thee, and let them judge the lesser matters only: that so it may be lighter for thee, the burden being shared out unto others. 
    23: If thou dost this, thou shalt fulfill the commandment of God, and shalt be able to bear his precepts: and all this people shall return to their places with peace. 
    24: And when Moses heard this, he did all things that he had suggested unto him. 
    25: And choosing able men out of all Israel, he appointed them rulers of the people, rulers over thousands, and over hundreds, and over fifties, and over tens.
    26: And they judged the people at all times: and whatsoever was of greater difficulty they referred to him, and they judged the easier cases only. 
    27: And he let his kinsman depart: and he returned and went into his own country.

  Chapter 19.

    1: In the third month of the departure of Israel out of the land of Egypt, on this day they came into the wilderness of Sinai: 
    2: For departing out of Raphidim, and coming to the desert of Sinai, they camped in the same place, and there Israel pitched their tents over against the mountain. 
    3: And Moses went up to God: and the Lord called unto him from the mountain, and said: Thus shalt thou say to the house of Jacob, and tell the children of Israel: 
    4: You have seen what I have done to the Egyptians, how I have carried you upon the wings of eagles, and have taken you to myself. 
    5: If therefore you will hear my voice, and keep my covenant, you shall be my peculiar possession above all people: for all the earth is mine.
    6: And you shall be to me a priestly kingdom, and a holy nation. Those are the words thou shalt speak to the children of Israel. 
    7: Moses came, and calling together the elders of the people, he declared all the words which the Lord had commanded. 
    8: And all the people answered together: All that the Lord hath spoken, we will do. And when Moses had related the people's words to the Lord, 
    9: The Lord said to him: Lo, now will I come to thee in the darkness of a cloud, that the people may hear me speaking to thee, and may believe thee for ever. And Moses told the words of the people to the Lord. 
    10: And he said to him: Go to the people, and sanctify them today, and tomorrow, and let them wash their garments.
    11: And let them be ready against the third day: for on the third day the Lord will come down in the sight of all the people upon mount Sinai. 
    12: And thou shalt appoint certain limits to the people round about, and thou shalt say to them: Take heed you go not up into the mount, and that ye touch not the borders thereof: every one that toucheth the mount dying he shall die. 
    13: No hands shall touch him, but he shall be stoned to death, or shall be shot through with arrows: whether it be beast, or man, he shall not live. When the trumpet shall begin to sound, then let them go up into the mount. 
    14: And Moses came down from the mount to the people, and sanctified them. And when they had washed their garments, 
    15: He said to them: Be ready against the third day, and come not near your wives.
    16: And now the third day was come, and the morning appeared: and behold thunders began to be heard, and lightning to flash, and a very thick cloud to cover the mount, and the noise of the trumpet sounded exceeding loud, and the people that was in the camp, feared. 
    17: And when Moses had brought them forth to meet God from the place of the camp, they stood at the bottom of the mount. 
    18: And all mount Sinai was on a smoke: because the Lord was come down upon it in fire, and the smoke arose from it as out of a furnace: and all the mount was terrible. 
    19: And the sound of the trumpet grew by degrees louder and louder, and was drawn out to a greater length: Moses spoke, and God answered him. 
    20: And the Lord came down upon mount Sinai, in the very top of the mount, and he called Moses unto the top thereof. And when he was gone up thither,
    21: He said unto him: Go down, and charge the people: lest they should have a mind to pass the limits to see the Lord, and a very great multitude of them should perish. 
    22: The priests also that come to the Lord, let them be sanctified, lest he strike them. 
    23: And Moses said to the Lord: The people cannot come up to mount Sinai: for thou did charge, and command, saying: Set limits about the mount, and sanctify it. 
    24: And the Lord said to him: Go, get thee down: and thou shalt come up, thou and Aaron with thee: but let not the priests and the people pass the limits, nor come up to the Lord, lest he kill them. 
    25: And Moses went down to the people and told them all.

  Chapter 20.

    1: And the Lord spoke all these words: 
    2: I am the Lord thy God, who brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. 
    3: Thou shalt not have strange gods before me. 
    4: Thou shalt not make to thyself a graven thing, nor the likeness of any thing that is in heaven above, or in the earth beneath, nor of those things that are in the waters under the earth. 
    5: Thou shalt not adore them, nor serve them: I am the Lord thy God, mighty, jealous, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children, unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate me:
    6: And shewing mercy unto thousands to them that love me, and keep my commandments. 
    7: Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain: for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that shall take the name of the Lord his God in vain. 
    8: Remember that thou keep holy the sabbath day. 
    9: Six days shalt thou labour, and shalt do all thy works. 
    10: But on the seventh day is the sabbath of the Lord thy God: thou shalt do no work on it, thou nor thy son, nor thy daughter, nor thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy beast, nor the stranger that is within thy gates.
    11: For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, and the sea, and all things that are in them, and rested on the seventh day: therefore the Lord blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it. 
    12: Honour thy father and thy mother, that thou mayest be longlived upon the land which the Lord thy God will give thee. 
    13: Thou shalt not kill. 
    14: Thou shalt not commit adultery. 
    15: Thou shalt not steal.
    16: Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbour. 
    17: Thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's house: neither shalt thou desire his wife, nor his servant, nor his handmaid, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor any thing that is his. 
    18: And all the people saw the voices and the flames, and the sound of the trumpet, and the mount smoking: and being terrified and struck with fear, they stood afar off, 
    19: Saying to Moses: Speak thou to us, and we will hear: let not the Lord speak to us, lest we die. 
    20: And Moses said to the people: Fear not: for God is come to prove you, and that the dread of him might be in you, and you should not sin.
    21: And the people stood afar off. But Moses went to the dark cloud wherein God was. 
    22: And the Lord said to Moses: Thus shalt thou say to the children of Israel: You have seen that I have spoken to you from heaven. 
    23: You shall not make gods of silver, nor shall you make to yourselves gods of gold. 
    24: You shall make an altar of earth unto me, and you shall offer upon it your holocausts and peace offerings, your sheep and oxen, in every place where the memory of my name shall be: I will come to thee, and will bless thee. 
    25: And if thou make an altar of stone unto me, thou shalt not build it of hewn stones: for if thou lift up a tool upon it, it shall be defiled.
    26: Thou shalt not go up by steps unto my altar, lest thy nakedness be discovered.

End of day 18.