Day 280:

Reading Zechariah, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: And I turned and lifted up my eyes: and I saw, and behold a volume flying. 
    2: And he said to me: What seest thou? And I said: I see a volume flying: the length thereof is twenty cubits, and the breadth thereof ten cubits. 
    3: And he said to me: This is the curse that goeth forth over the face of the earth: for every thief shall be judged as is there written: and every one that sweareth in like manner shall be judged by it. 
    4: I will bring it forth, saith the Lord of hosts: and it shall come to the house of the thief, and to the house of him that sweareth falsely by my name: and it shall remain in the midst of his house, and shall consume it, with the timber thereof, and the stones thereof. 
    5: And the angel went forth that spoke in me, and he said to me: Lift up thy eyes, and see what this is, that goeth forth.
    6: And I said: What is it? And he said: This is a vessel going forth. And he said: This is their eye in all the earth. 
    7: And behold a talent of lead was carried, and behold a woman sitting in the midst of the vessel. 
    8: And he said: This is wickedness. And he cast her into the midst of the vessel, and cast the weight of lead upon the mouth thereof. 
    9: And I lifted up my eyes and looked: and behold there came out two women, and wind was in their wings, and they had wings like the wings of a kite: and they lifted up the vessel between the earth and the heaven. 
    10: And I said to the angel that spoke in me: Whither do these carry the vessel?
    11: And he said to me: That a house may be built for it in the land of Sennaar, and that it may be established, and set there upon its own basis.

  Chapter 6.

    1: And I turned, and lifted up my eyes, and saw: and behold four chariots came out from the midst of two mountains: and the mountains were mountains of brass. 
    2: In the first chariot were red horses, and in the second chariot black horses. 
    3: And in the third chariot white horses, and in the fourth chariot grisled horses, and strong ones. 
    4: And I answered, and said to the angel that spoke in me: What are these, my lord? 
    5: And the angel answered, and said to me: These are the four winds of the heaven, which go forth to stand before the Lord of all the earth.
    6: That in which were the black horses went forth into the land of the north, and the white went forth after them: and the grisled went forth to the land of the south. 
    7: And they that were most strong, went out, and sought to go, and to run to and fro through all the earth. And he said: Go, walk throughout the earth: and they walked throughout the earth. 
    8: And he called me, and spoke to me, saying: Behold they that go forth into the land of the north, have quieted my spirit in the land of the north. 
    9: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying: 
    10: Take of them of the captivity, of Holdai, and of Tobias, and of Idaias; thou shalt come in that day, and shalt go into the house of Josias, the son of Sophonias, who came out of Babylon.
    11: And thou shalt take gold and silver: and shalt make crowns, and thou shalt set them on the head of Jesus the son of Josedec, the high priest. 
    12: And thou shalt speak to him, saying: Thus saith the Lord of hosts, saying: BEHOLD A MAN, THE ORIENT IS HIS NAME: and under him shall he spring up, and shall build a temple to the Lord. 
    13: Yea, he shall build a temple to the Lord: and he shall bear the glory, and shall sit, and rule upon his throne: and he shall be a priest upon his throne, and the counsel of peace shall be between them both. 
    14: And the crowns shall be to Helem, and Tobias, and Idaias, and to Hem, the son of Sophonias, a memorial in the temple of the Lord. 
    15: And they that are far off, shall come and shall build in the temple of the Lord: and you shall know that the Lord of hosts sent me to you. But this shall come to pass, if hearing you will hear the voice of the Lord your God.

  Chapter 7.

    1: And it came to pass in the fourth year of king Darius, that the word of the Lord came to Zacharias, in the fourth day of the ninth month, which is Casleu. 
    2: When Sarasar, and Rogommelech, and the men that were with him, sent to the house of God, to entreat the face of the Lord: 
    3: To speak to the priests of the house of the Lord of hosts, and to the prophets, saying: Must I weep in the fifth month, or must I sanctify myself as I have now done for many years? 
    4: And the word of the Lord of hosts came to me, saying: 
    5: Speak to all the people of the land, and to the priests, saying: When you fasted, and mourned in the fifth and the seventh month for these seventy years: did you keep a fast unto me?
    6: And when you did eat and drink, did you not eat for yourselves, and drink for yourselves? 
    7: Are not these the words which the Lord spoke by the hand of the former prophets, when Jerusalem as yet was inhabited, and was wealthy, both itself and the cities round about it, and there were inhabitants towards the south, and in the plain? 
    8: And the word of the Lord came to Zacharias, saying: 
    9: Thus saith the Lord of hosts, saying: Judge ye true judgment, and shew ye mercy and compassion every man to his brother. 
    10: And oppress not the widow, and the fatherless, and the stranger, and the poor: and let not a man devise evil in his heart against his brother.
    11: But they would not hearken, and they turned away the shoulder to depart: and they stopped their ears, not to hear. 
    12: And they made their heart as the adamant stone, lest they should hear the law, and the words which the Lord of hosts sent in his spirit by the hand of the former prophets: so a great indignation came from the Lord of hosts. 
    13: And it came to pass that as he spoke, and they heard not: so shall they cry, and I will not hear, saith the Lord of hosts. 
    14: And I dispersed them throughout all kingdoms, which they know not: and the land was left desolate behind them, so that no man passed through or returned: and they changed the delightful land into a wilderness.

  Chapter 8.

    1: And the word of the Lord of hosts came to me, saying: 
    2: Thus saith the Lord of hosts: I have been jealous for Sion with a great jealousy, and with a great indignation have I been jealous for her. 
    3: Thus saith the Lord of hosts: I am returned to Sion, and I will dwell in the midst of Jerusalem: and Jerusalem shall be called The city of truth, and the mountain of the Lord of hosts, The sanctified mountain. 
    4: Thus saith the Lord of hosts: There shall yet old men and old women dwell in the streets of Jerusalem: and every man with his staff in his hand through multitude of days. 
    5: And the streets of the city shall be full of boys and girls, playing in the streets thereof.
    6: Thus saith the Lord of hosts: If it seem hard in the eyes of the remnant of this people in those days: shall it be hard in my eyes, saith the Lord of hosts? 
    7: Thus saith the Lord of hosts: Behold I will save my people from the land of the east, and from the land of the going down of the sun. 
    8: And I will bring them, and they shall dwell in the midst of Jerusalem: and they shall be my people, and I will be their God in truth and in justice. 
    9: Thus saith the Lord of hosts: Let your hands be strengthened, you that hear in these days these words by the mouth of the prophets, in the day that the house of the Lord of hosts was founded, that the temple might be built. 
    10: For before those days there was no hire for men, neither was there hire for beasts, neither was there peace to him that came in, nor to him that went out, because of the tribulation: and I let all men go every one against his neighbour.
    11: But now I will not deal with the remnant of this people according to the former days, saith the Lord of hosts. 
    12: But there shall be the seed of peace: the vine shall yield her fruit, and the earth shall give her increase, and the heavens shall give their dew: and I will cause the remnant of this people to possess all these things. 
    13: And it shall come to pass, that as you were a curse among the Gentiles, O house of Juda, and house of Israel: so will I save you, and you shall be a blessing: fear not, let your hands be strengthened. 
    14: For thus saith the Lord of hosts: As I purposed to afflict you, when your fathers had provoked me to wrath, saith the Lord, 
    15: And I had no mercy: so turning again I have thought in these days to do good to the house of Juda, and Jerusalem: fear not.
    16: These then are the things, which you shall do: Speak ye truth every one to his neighbour: judge ye truth and judgment of peace in your gates. 
    17: And let none of you imagine evil in your hearts against his friend: and love not a false oath: for all these are the things that I hate, saith the Lord. 
    18: And the word of the Lord of hosts came to me, saying: 
    19: Thus saith the Lord of hosts: The fast of the fourth month, and the fast of the fifth, and the fast of the seventh, and the fast of the tenth shall be to the house of Juda, joy, and gladness, and great solemnities: only love ye truth and peace. 
    20: Thus saith the Lord of hosts, until people come, and dwell in many cities,
    21: And the inhabitants go one to another, saying: Let us go, and entreat the face of the Lord, and let us seek the Lord of hosts: I also will go. 
    22: And many peoples, and strong nations shall come to seek the Lord of hosts in Jerusalem, and to entreat the face of the Lord. 
    23: Thus saith the Lord of hosts: In those days, wherein ten men of all languages of the Gentiles shall take hold, and shall hold fast the shirt of one that is a Jew, saying: We will go with you: for we have heard that God is with you.

End of day 280.