Day 356:

Reading Revelation, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: And the fifth angel sounded the trumpet, and I saw a star fall from heaven upon the earth, and there was given to him the key of the bottomless pit. 
    2: And he opened the bottomless pit: and the smoke of the pit arose, as the smoke of a great furnace; and the sun and the air were darkened with the smoke of the pit. 
    3: And from the smoke of the pit there came out locusts upon the earth. And power was given to them, as the scorpions of the earth have power: 
    4: And it was commanded them that they should not hurt the grass of the earth, nor any green thing, nor any tree: but only the men who have not the sign of God on their foreheads. 
    5: And it was given unto them that they should not kill them; but that they should torment them five months: and their torment was as the torment of a scorpion when he striketh a man.
    6: And in those days men shall seek death, and shall not find it: and they shall desire to die, and death shall fly from them. 
    7: And the shapes of the locusts were like unto horses prepared unto battle: and on their heads were, as it were, crowns like gold: and their faces were as the faces of men. 
    8: And they had hair as the hair of women; and their teeth were as lions: 
    9: And they had breastplates as breastplates of iron, and the noise of their wings was as the noise of chariots and many horses running to battle. 
    10: And they had tails like to scorpions, and there were stings in their tails; and their power was to hurt men five months. And they had over them
    11: A king, the angel of the bottomless pit; whose name in Hebrew is Abaddon, and in Greek Apollyon; in Latin Exterminans, 
    12: One woe is past, and behold there come yet two woes more hereafter. 
    13: And the sixth angel sounded the trumpet: and I heard a voice from the four horns of the great altar, which is before the eyes of God, 
    14: Saying to the sixth angel, who had the trumpet: Loose the four angels, who are bound in the great river Euphrates. 
    15: And the four angels were loosed, who were prepared for an hour, and a day, and a month, and a year: for to kill the third part of men.
    16: And the number of the army of horsemen was twenty thousand times ten thousand. And I heard the number of them. 
    17: And thus I saw the horses in the vision: and they that sat on them, had breastplates of fire and of hyacinth and of brimstone, and the heads of the horses were as the heads of lions: and from their mouths proceeded fire, and smoke, and brimstone. 
    18: And by these three plagues was slain the third part of men, by the fire and by the smoke and by the brimstone, which issued out of their mouths. 
    19: For the power of the horses is in their mouths, and in their tails. For, their tails are like to serpents, and have heads: and with them they hurt. 
    20: And the rest of the men, who were not slain by these plagues, did not do penance from the works of their hands, that they should not adore devils, and idols of gold, and silver, and brass, and stone, and wood, which neither can see, nor hear, nor walk:
    21: Neither did they penance from their murders, nor from their sorceries, nor from their fornication, nor from their thefts.

  Chapter 10.

    1: And I saw another mighty angel come down from heaven, clothed with a cloud, and a rainbow was on his head, and his face was as the sun, and his feet as pillars of fire. 
    2: And he had in his hand a little book open: and he set his right foot upon the sea, and his left foot upon the earth. 
    3: And he cried with a loud voice as when a lion roareth. And when he had cried, seven thunders uttered their voices. 
    4: And when the seven thunders had uttered their voices, I was about to write: and I heard a voice from heaven saying to me: Seal up the things which the seven thunders have spoken; and write them not. 
    5: And the angel, whom I saw standing upon the sea and upon the earth, lifted up his hand to heaven,
    6: And he swore by him that liveth for ever and ever, who created heaven, and the things which are therein; and the earth, and the things which are in it; and the sea, and the things which are therein: That time shall be no longer. 
    7: But in the days of the voice of the seventh angel, when he shall begin to sound the trumpet, the mystery of God shall be finished, as he hath declared by his servants the prophets. 
    8: And I heard a voice from heaven again speaking to me, and saying: Go, and take the book that is open, from the hand of the angel who standeth upon the sea, and upon the earth. 
    9: And I went to the angel, saying unto him, that he should give me the book. And he said to me: Take the book, and eat it up: and it shall make thy belly bitter, but in thy mouth it shall be sweet as honey. 
    10: And I took the book from the hand of the angel, and ate it up: and it was in my mouth, sweet as honey: and when I had eaten it, my belly was bitter.
    11: And he said to me: Thou must prophesy again to many nations, and peoples, and tongues, and kings.

  Chapter 11.

    1: And there was given me a reed like unto a rod: and it was said to me: Arise, and measure the temple of God, and the altar and them that adore therein. 
    2: But the court, which is without the temple, cast out, and measure it not: because it is given unto the Gentiles, and the holy city they shall tread under foot two and forty months: 
    3: And I will give unto my two witnesses, and they shall prophesy a thousand two hundred sixty days, clothed in sackcloth. 
    4: These are the two olive trees, and the two candlesticks, that stand before the Lord of the earth. 
    5: And if any man will hurt them, fire shall come out of their mouths, and shall devour their enemies. And if any man will hurt them, in this manner must he be slain.
    6: These have power to shut heaven, that it rain not in the days of their prophecy: and they have power over waters to turn them into blood, and to strike the earth with all plagues as often as they will. 
    7: And when they shall have finished their testimony, the beast, that ascendeth out of the abyss, shall make war against them, and shall overcome them, and kill them. 
    8: And their bodies shall lie in the streets of the great city, which is called spiritually, Sodom and Egypt, where their Lord also was crucified. 
    9: And they of the tribes, and peoples, and tongues, and nations, shall see their bodies for three days and a half: and they shall not suffer their bodies to be laid in sepulchres. 
    10: And they that dwell upon the earth shall rejoice over them, and make merry: and shall send gifts one to another, because these two prophets tormented them that dwelt upon the earth.
    11: And after three days and a half, the spirit of life from God entered into them. And they stood upon their feet, and great fear fell upon them that saw them. 
    12: And they heard a great voice from heaven, saying to them: Come up hither. And they went up to heaven in a cloud: and their enemies saw them. 
    13: And at that hour there was made a great earthquake, and the tenth part of the city fell: and there were slain in the earthquake names of men seven thousand: and the rest were cast into a fear, and gave glory to the God of heaven. 
    14: The second woe is past: and behold the third woe will come quickly. 
    15: And the seventh angel sounded the trumpet: and there were great voices in heaven, saying: The kingdom of this world is become our Lord's and his Christ's, and he shall reign for ever and ever. Amen.
    16: And the four and twenty ancients, who sit on their seats in the sight of God, fell on their faces and adored God, saying: 
    17: We give thee thanks, O Lord God Almighty, who art, and who wast, and who art to come: because thou hast taken to thee thy great power, and thou hast reigned. 
    18: And the nations were angry, and thy wrath is come, and the time of the dead, that they should be judged, and that thou shouldest render reward to thy servants the prophets and the saints, and to them that fear thy name, little and great, and shouldest destroy them who have corrupted the earth. 
    19: And the temple of God was opened in heaven: and the ark of his testament was seen in his temple, and there were lightnings, and voices, and an earthquake, and great hail.

  Chapter 12.

    1: And a great sign appeared in heaven: A woman clothed with the sun, and the moon under her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars: 
    2: And being with child, she cried travailing in birth, and was in pain to be delivered. 
    3: And there was seen another sign in heaven: and behold a great red dragon, having seven heads, and ten horns: and on his head seven diadems: 
    4: And his tail drew the third part of the stars of heaven, and cast them to the earth: and the dragon stood before the woman who was ready to be delivered; that, when she should be delivered, he might devour her son. 
    5: And she brought forth a man child, who was to rule all nations with an iron rod: and her son was taken up to God, and to his throne.
    6: And the woman fled into the wilderness, where she had a place prepared by God, that there they should feed her a thousand two hundred sixty days. 
    7: And there was a great battle in heaven, Michael and his angels fought with the dragon, and the dragon fought and his angels: 
    8: And they prevailed not, neither was their place found any more in heaven. 
    9: And that great dragon was cast out, that old serpent, who is called the devil and Satan, who seduceth the whole world; and he was cast unto the earth, and his angels were thrown down with him. 
    10: And I heard a loud voice in heaven, saying: Now is come salvation, and strength, and the kingdom of our God, and the power of his Christ: because the accuser of our brethren is cast forth, who accused them before our God day and night.
    11: And they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb, and by the word of the testimony, and they loved not their lives unto death. 
    12: Therefore rejoice, O heavens, and you that dwell therein. Woe to the earth, and to the sea, because the devil is come down unto you, having great wrath, knowing that he hath but a short time. 
    13: And when the dragon saw that he was cast unto the earth, he persecuted the woman, who brought forth the man child: 
    14: And there were given to the woman two wings of a great eagle, that she might fly into the desert unto her place, where she is nourished for a time and times, and half a time, from the face of the serpent. 
    15: And the serpent cast out of his mouth after the woman, water as it were a river; that he might cause her to be carried away by the river.
    16: And the earth helped the woman, and the earth opened her mouth, and swallowed up the river, which the dragon cast out of his mouth. 
    17: And the dragon was angry against the woman: and went to make war with the rest of her seed, who keep the commandments of God, and have the testimony of Jesus Christ. 
    18: And he stood upon the sand of the sea.

End of day 356.