Day 336:

Reading 1-Timothy, chapters ['5', '6']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: An ancient man rebuke not, but entreat him as a father: young men, as brethren: 
    2: Old women, as mothers: young women, as sisters, in all chastity. 
    3: Honour widows, that are widows indeed. 
    4: But if any widow have children, or grandchildren, let her learn first to govern her own house, and to make a return of duty to her parents: for this is acceptable before God. 
    5: But she that is a widow indeed, and desolate, let her trust in God, and continue in supplications and prayers night and day.
    6: For she that liveth in pleasures, is dead while she is living. 
    7: And this give in charge, that they may be blameless. 
    8: But if any man have not care of his own, and especially of those of his house, he hath denied the faith, and is worse than an infidel. 
    9: Let a widow be chosen of no less than threescore years of age, who hath been the wife of one husband. 
    10: Having testimony for her good works, if she have brought up children, if she have received to harbour, if she have washed the saints' feet, if she have ministered to them that suffer tribulation, if she have diligently followed every good work.
    11: But the younger widows avoid. For when they have grown wanton in Christ, they will marry: 
    12: Having damnation, because they have made void their first faith. 
    13: And withal being idle they learn to go about from house to house: and are not only idle, but tattlers also, and busybodies, speaking things which they ought not. 
    14: I will therefore that the younger should marry, bear children, be mistresses of families, give no occasion to the adversary to speak evil. 
    15: For some are already turned aside after Satan.
    16: If any of the faithful have widows, let him minister to them, and let not the church be charged: that there may be sufficient for them that are widows indeed. 
    17: Let the priests that rule well, be esteemed worthy of double honour: especially they who labour in the word and doctrine: 
    18: For the scripture saith: Thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn: and, The labourer is worthy of his reward. 
    19: Against a priest receive not an accusation, but under two or three witnesses. 
    20: Them that sin reprove before all: that the rest also may have fear.
    21: I charge thee before God, and Christ Jesus, and the elect angels, that thou observe these things without prejudice, doing nothing by declining to either side. 
    22: Impose not hands lightly upon any man, neither be partaker of other men's sins. Keep thyself chaste. 
    23: Do not still drink water, but use a little wine for thy stomach's sake, and thy frequent infirmities. 
    24: Some men's sins are manifest, going before to judgment: and some men they follow after. 
    25: In like manner also good deeds are manifest: and they that are otherwise, cannot be hid.

  Chapter 6.

    1: Whosoever are servants under the yoke, let them count their masters worthy of all honour; lest the name of the Lord and his doctrine be blasphemed. 
    2: But they that have believing masters, let them not despise them, because they are brethren; but serve them the rather, because they are faithful and beloved, who are partakers of the benefit. These things teach and exhort. 
    3: If any man teach otherwise, and consent not to the sound words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to that doctrine which is according to godliness, 
    4: He is proud, knowing nothing, but sick about questions and strifes of words; from which arise envies, contentions, blasphemies, evil suspicions, 
    5: Conflicts of men corrupted in mind, and who are destitute of the truth, supposing gain to be godliness.
    6: But godliness with contentment is great gain. 
    7: For we brought nothing into this world: and certainly we can carry nothing out. 
    8: But having food, and wherewith to be covered, with these we are content. 
    9: For they that will become rich, fall into temptation, and into the snare of the devil, and into many unprofitable and hurtful desires, which drown men into destruction and perdition. 
    10: For the desire of money is the root of all evils; which some coveting have erred from the faith, and have entangled themselves in many sorrows.
    11: But thou, O man of God, fly these things: and pursue justice, godliness, faith, charity, patience, mildness. 
    12: Fight the good fight of faith: lay hold on eternal life, whereunto thou art called, and hast confessed a good confession before many witnesses. 
    13: I charge thee before God, who quickeneth all things, and before Christ Jesus, who gave testimony under Pontius Pilate, a good confession, 
    14: That thou keep the commandment without spot, blameless, unto the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, 
    15: Which in his times he shall shew who is the Blessed and only Mighty, the King of kings, and Lord of lords;
    16: Who only hath immortality, and inhabiteth light inaccessible, whom no man hath seen, nor can see: to whom be honour and empire everlasting. Amen. 
    17: Charge the rich of this world not to be highminded, nor to trust in the uncertainty of riches, but in the living God, (who giveth us abundantly all things to enjoy,) 
    18: To do good, to be rich in good works, to give easily, to communicate to others, 
    19: To lay up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come, that they may lay hold on the true life. 
    20: O Timothy, keep that which is committed to thy trust, avoiding the profane novelties of words, and oppositions of knowledge falsely so called.
    21: Which some promising, have erred concerning the faith. Grace be with thee. Amen.

End of day 336.