Day 92:

Reading 1-Chronicles, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: And David consulted with the captains of thousands, and of hundreds, and with all the commanders. 
    2: And he said to all the assembly of Israel: If it please you; and if the words which I speak come from the Lord our God, let us send to the rest of our brethren into all the countries of Israel, and to the priests, and the Levites, that dwell in the suburbs of the cities, to gather themselves to us, 
    3: And let us bring again the ark of our God to us: for we sought it not in the days of Saul. 
    4: And all the multitude answered that it should be so: for the word pleased all the people. 
    5: So David assembled all Israel from Sihor of Egypt, even to the entering into Emath, to bring the ark of God from Cariathiarim.
    6: And David went up with all the men of Israel to the hill of Cariathiarim which is in Juda, to bring thence the ark of the Lord God sitting upon the cherubims, where his name is called upon. 
    7: And they carried the ark of God upon a new cart, out of the house of Abinadab. And Oza and his brother drove the cart. 
    8: And David and all Israel played before God with all their might with hymns, and with harps, and with psalteries, and timbrels, and cymbals, and trumpets, 
    9: And when they came to the floor of Chidon, Oza put forth his hand, to hold up the ark: for the ox being wanton had made it lean a little on one side. 
    10: And the Lord was angry with Oza, and struck him, because he had touched the ark; and he died there before the Lord.
    11: And David was troubled because the Lord had divided Oza: and he called that place the Breach of Oza to this day. 
    12: And he feared God at that time, saying: How can I bring in the ark of God to me? 
    13: And therefore he brought it not home to himself, that is, into the city of David, but carried it aside into the house of Obededom the Gethite. 
    14: And the ark of God remained in the house of Obededom three months: and the Lord blessed his house, and all that he had.

  Chapter 14.

    1: And Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to David, and cedar trees, and masons, and carpenters, to build him a house. 
    2: And David perceived that the Lord had confirmed him king over Israel, and that his kingdom was exalted over his people Israel. 
    3: And David took other wives in Jerusalem: and he beget sons, and daughters. 
    4: Now these are the names of them that were born to him in Jerusalem: Samua, and Sobad, Nathan, and Solomon, 
    5: Jebahar, and Elisua, and Eliphalet,
    6: And Noga, and Napheg, and Japhia, 
    7: Elisama. and Baaliada, and Eliphalet. 
    8: And the Philistines hearing that David was anointed king over all Israel, went all up to seek him: and David heard of it, and went out against them. 
    9: And the Philistines came and spread themselves in the vale of Raphaim. 
    10: And David consulted the Lord, saying: Shall I go up against the Philistines, and wilt thou deliver them into my hand? And the Lord said to him: Go up, and I will deliver them into thy hand.
    11: And when they were come to Baalpharasim, David defeated them there, and he said: God hath divided my enemies by my hand, as waters are divided: and therefore the name of that place was called Baalpharasim. 
    12: And they left there their gods, and David commanded that they should be burnt. 
    13: Another time also the Philistines made an irruption, and spread themselves abroad in the valley. 
    14: And David consulted God again, and God said to him: Go not up after them, turn away from them, and come upon them over against the pear trees. 
    15: And when thou shalt hear the sound of one going in the tops of the pear trees, then shalt thou go out to battle. For God is gone out before thee to strike the army of the Philistines.
    16: And David did as God had commanded him, and defeated the army of the Philistines, slaying them from Gabaon to Gazera. 
    17: And the name of David became famous in all countries, and the Lord made all nations fear him.

  Chapter 15.

    1: He made also houses for himself in the city of David: and built a place for the ark of God, and pitched a tabernacle for it. 
    2: Then David said: No one ought to carry the ark of God, but the Levites, whom the Lord hath chosen to carry it, and to minister unto himself for ever. 
    3: And he gathered all Israel together into Jerusalem, that the ark of God might be brought into its place, which he had prepared for it. 
    4: And the sons of Aaron also, and the Levites. 
    5: Of the children of Caath, Uriel was the chief, and his brethren a hundred and twenty.
    6: Of the sons of Merari, Asaia the chief, and his brethren two hundred and twenty. 
    7: Of the sons of Gersom, Joel the chief, and his brethren a hundred and thirty. 
    8: Of the sons of Elisaphan, Semeias the chief: and his brethren two hundred. 
    9: Of the sons of Hebron, Eliel the chief: and his brethren eighty. 
    10: Of the sons of Oziel, Aminadab the chief: and his brethren a hundred and twelve.
    11: And David called Sadoc, and Abiathar the priests, and the Levites, Uriel, Asaia, Joel, Semeia, Eliel, and Aminadab: 
    12: And he said to them: You that are the heads of the Levitical families, be sanctified with your brethren, and brine the ark of the Lord the God of Israel to the place, which is prepared for it: 
    13: Lest as the Lord at first struck us, because you were not present, the same should now also come to pass, by our doing some thing against the law. 
    14: So the priests and the Levites were sanctified, to carry the ark of the Lord the God of Israel. 
    15: And the sons of Levi took the ark of God as Moses had commanded, according to the word of the Lord, upon their shoulders, with the staves.
    16: And David spoke to the chiefs of the Levites, to appoint some of their brethren to be singers with musical instruments, to wit, on psalteries, and harps, and cymbals, that the joyful noise might resound on high. 
    17: And they appointed Levites, Hemam the son of Joel, and of his brethren Asaph the son of Barachias: and of the sons of Merari, their brethren: Ethan the son of Casaia. 
    18: And with them their brethren: in the second rank, Zacharias, and Ben, and Jaziel, and Semiramoth, and Jahiel, and Ani, and Eliab, and Banaias, and Maasias, and Mathathias, and Eliphalu, and Macenias, and Obededom, and Jehiel, the porters. 
    19: Now the singers, Heman, Asaph, and Ethan, sounded with cymbals of brass. 
    20: And Zacharias, and Oziel, and Semiramoth, and Jehiel, and Ani, and Eliab, and Maasias, and Banaias, sung mysteries upon psalteries.
    21: And Mathathias, and Eliphalu, and Macenias and Obededom, and Jehiel and Ozaziu, sung a song of victory for the octave upon harps. 
    22: And Chonenias chief of the Levites, presided over the prophecy, to give out the tunes: for he was very skillful. 
    23: And Barachias, and Elcana, were doorkeepers of the ark. 
    24: And Sebenias, and Josaphat, and Nathanael, and Amasai, and Zacharias, and Banaias, and Eliezer the priests, sounded with trumpets, before the ark of God: and Obededom and Jehias were porters of the ark. 
    25: So David and all the ancients of Israel, and the captains over thousands, went to bring the ark of the covenant of the Lord out of the house of Obededom with joy.
    26: And when God had helped the Levites who carried the ark of the covenant of the Lord, they offered in sacrifice seven oxen, and seven rams. 
    27: And David was clothed with a robe of fine linen, and all the Levites that carried the ark, and the singing men, and Chonenias the ruler of the prophecy among the singers: and David also had on him an ephod of linen. 
    28: And all Israel brought the ark of the covenant of the Lord with joyful shouting, and sounding with the sound of the comet, and with trumpets, and cymbals, and psalteries, and harps. 
    29: And when the ark of the covenant of the Lord was come to the city of David, Michol the daughter of Saul looking out at a window, saw king David dancing and playing, and she despised him in her heart.

  Chapter 16.

    1: So they brought the ark of God, and set it in the midst of the tent, which David had pitched for it: and they offered holocausts, and peace offerings before God. 
    2: And when David had made an end of offering holocausts, and peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the Lord. 
    3: And he divided to all and every one, both men and women, a loaf of bread, and a piece of roasted beef, and flour fried with oil. 
    4: And he appointed Levites to minister before the ark of the Lord, and to remember his works, and to glorify, and praise the Lord God of Israel. 
    5: Asaph the chief, and next after him Zacharias: moreover Jahiel, and Semiramoth, and Jehiel, and Mathathias, and Eliab, and Banaias, and Obededom: and Jehiel over the instruments of psaltery, and harps: and Asaph sounded with cymbals:
    6: But Banaias, and Jaziel the priests, to sound the trumpet continually before the ark of the covenant of the Lord. 
    7: In that day David made Asaph the chief to give praise to the Lord with his brethren. 
    8: Praise ye the Lord, and call upon his name: make known his doings among the nations. 
    9: Sing to him, yea, sing praises to him: and relate all his wondrous works. 
    10: Praise ye his holy name: let the heart I of them rejoice, that seek the Lord.
    11: Seek ye the Lord, and his power: seek ye his face evermore. 
    12: Remember his wonderful works, which he hath done: his signs, and the judgments of his mouth. 
    13: O ye seed of Israel his servants, ye children of Jacob his chosen. 
    14: He is the Lord our God: his judgments are in all the earth. 
    15: Remember for ever his covenant: the word, which he commanded to a thousand generations.
    16: The covenant which he made with Abraham: and his oath to Isaac. 
    17: And he appointed the same to Jacob for a precept: and to Israel for an everlasting covenant: 
    18: Saying: To thee will I give the land of Chanaan: the lot of your inheritance. 
    19: When they were but a small number: very few and sojourners in it. 
    20: And they passed from nation to nation: and from a kingdom to another people.
    21: He suffered no man to do them wrong: and reproved kings for their sake. 
    22: Touch not my anointed: and do no evil to my prophets. 
    23: Sing ye to the Lord, all the earth: shew forth from day to day his salvation. 
    24: Declare his glory among the Gentiles: his wonders among all people. 
    25: For the Lord is great and exceedingly to be praised: and he is to be feared above all gods.
    26: For all the gods of the nations are idols: but the Lord made the heavens. 
    27: Praise and magnificence are before him: strength and joy in his place. 
    28: Bring ye to the Lord, O ye families of the nations: bring ye to the Lord glory and empire. 
    29: Give to the Lord glory to his name, bring up sacrifice, and come ye in his sight: and adore the Lord in holy becomingness. 
    30: Let all the earth be moved at his presence: for he hath founded the world immoveable.
    31: Let the heavens rejoice, and the earth be glad: and let them say among the nations: The Lord hath reigned. 
    32: Let the sea roar, and the fulness thereof: let the fields rejoice, and all things that are in them. 
    33: Then shall the trees of the wood give praise before the Lord: because he is come to judge the earth. 
    34: Give ye glory to the Lord, for he is good: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
    35: And say ye: Save us, O God our saviour: and gather us together, and deliver us from the nations, that we may give glory to thy holy name, and may rejoice in singing thy praises.
    36: Blessed be the Lord the God of Israel from eternity to eternity: and let all the people say Amen, and a hymn to God. 
    37: So he left there before the ark of the covenant of the Lord, Asaph and his brethren to minister in the presence of the ark continually day by day, and in their courses. 
    38: And Obededom, with his brethren sixty-eight: and Obededom the son of Idithun, and Hosa he appointed to be porters. 
    39: And Sadoc the priest, and his brethren priests, before the tabernacle of the Lord in the high place, which was in Gabaon. 
    40: That they should offer holocausts to the Lord upon the altar of holocausts continually, morning and evening, according to all that is written in the law of the Lord, which he commanded Israel.
    41: And after him Heman, and Idithun, and the rest that were chosen, every one by his name to give praise to the Lord: because his mercy endureth for ever. 
    42: And Heman and Idithun sounded the trumpet, and played on the cymbals, and all kinds of musical instruments to sing praises to God: and the sons of Idithun he made porters. 
    43: And all the people returned to their houses: and David to bless also his own house.

End of day 92.