Day 118:

Reading Judith, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: And it was told Holofernes the general of the army of the Assyrians, that the children of Israel prepared themselves to resist, and had shut up the ways of the mountains. 
    2: And he was transported with exceeding great fury and indignation, and he called all the princes of Moab and the leaders of Amman. 
    3: And he said to them: Tell me what is this people that besetteth the mountains: or what are their cities, and of what sort, and how great: also what is their power, or what is their multitude: or who is the king over their warfare: 
    4: And why they above all that dwell in the east, have despised us, and have not come out to meet us, that they might receive us with peace? 
    5: Then Achior captain of all the children of Ammon answering, said: If thou vouch safe, my lord, to hear, I will tell the truth in thy sight concerning this people, that dwelleth in the mountains, and there shall not a false word come out of my mouth.
    6: This people is of the offspring of the Chaldeans. 
    7: They dwelt first in Mesopotamia, because they would not follow the gods of their fathers, who were in the land of the Chaldeans. 
    8: Wherefore forsaking the ceremonies of their fathers, which consisted in the worship of many gods, 
    9: They worshipped one God of heaven, who also commanded them to depart from thence, and to dwell in Charan. And when there was a famine over all the land, they went down into Egypt, and there for four hundred years were so multiplied, that the army of them could not be numbered. 
    10: And when the king of Egypt oppressed them, and made slaves of them to labour in clay and brick, in the building of his cities, they cried to their Lord, and he struck the whole land of Egypt with divers plagues.
    11: And when the Egyptians had cast them out from them, and the plague had ceased from them, and they had a mind to take them again, and bring them back to their service, 
    12: The God of heaven opened the sea to them in their flight, so that the waters were made to stand firm as a wall on either side, and they walked through the bottom of the sea and passed it dry foot. 
    13: And when an innumerable army of the Egyptians pursued after them in that place, they were so overwhelmed with the waters, that there was not one left, to tell what had happened to posterity. 
    14: And after they came out of the Red Sea, they abode in the deserts of mount Sina, in which never man could dwell, or son of man rested. 
    15: There bitter fountains were made sweet for them to drink, and for forty years they received food from heaven.
    16: Wheresoever they went in without bow and arrow, and without shield and sword, their God fought for them and overcame. 
    17: And there was no one that triumphed over this people, but when they departed from the worship of the Lord their God. 
    18: But as often as beside their own God, they worshipped any other, they were given to spoil, and to the sword, and to reproach. 
    19: And as often as they were penitent for having revolted from the worship of their God, the God of heaven gave them power to resist. 
    20: So they overthrew the king of the Chanaanites, and of the Jebusites, and of the Pherezites, and of the Hethites, and of the Hevites, and of the Amorrhites, and all the mighty ones in Hesebon, and they possessed their lands, and their cities:
    21: And as long as they sinned not in the sight of their God, it was well with them: for their God hateth iniquity. 
    22: And even some years ago when they had revolted from the way which God had given them to walk therein, they were destroyed in battles by many nations, and very many of them were led away captive into a strange land. 
    23: But of late returning to the Lord their God, from the different places wherein they were scattered, they are come together and are gone up into all these mountains, and possess Jerusalem again, where their holies are. 
    24: Now therefore, my lord, search if there be any iniquity of theirs in the sight of their God: let us go up to them, because their God will surely deliver them to thee, and they shall be brought under the yoke of thy power: 
    25: But if there be no offense of this people in the sight of their God, we can not resist them, because their God will defend them: and we shall be a reproach to the whole earth.
    26: And it came to pass, when Achior had ceased to speak these words, all the great men of Holofernes were angry, and they had a mind to kill him, saying to each other: 
    27: Who is this, that saith the children of Israel can resist king Nabuchodonosor, and his armies, men unarmed, and without force, and without skill in the art of war? 
    28: That Achior therefore may know that he deceiveth us, let us go up into the mountains: and when the bravest of them shall be taken, then shall he with them be stabbed with the sword: 
    29: That every nation may know that Nabuchodonosor is god of the earth, and besides him there is no other.

  Chapter 6.

    1: And it came to pass when they had left off speaking, that Holofernes being in a violent passion, said to Achior: 
    2: Because thou hast prophesied unto us, saying: That the nation of Israel is defended by their God, to shew thee that there is no God, but Nabuchodonosor: 
    3: When we shall slay them all as one man, then thou also shalt die with them by the sword of the Assyrians, and all Israel shall perish with thee: 
    4: And thou shalt find that Nabuchodonosor is lord of the whole earth: and then the sword of my soldiers shall pass through thy sides, and thou shalt be stabbed and fall among the wounded of Israel, and thou shalt breathe no more till thou be destroyed with them. 
    5: But if thou think thy prophecy true, let not thy countenance sink, and let the paleness that is in thy face, depart from thee, if thou imaginest these my words cannot be accomplished.
    6: And that thou mayst know that thou shalt experience these things together with them, behold from this hour thou shalt be associated to their people, that when they shall receive the punishment they deserve from my sword, thou mayst fall under the same vengeance. 
    7: Then Holofernes commanded his servants to take Achior, and to lead him to Bethulia, and to deliver him into the hands of the children of Israel. 
    8: And the servants of Holofernes taking him, went through the plains: but when they came near the mountains, the slingers came out against them. 
    9: Then turning out of the way by the side of the mountain, they tied Achior to a tree hand and foot, and so left him bound with ropes, and returned to their master. 
    10: And the children of Israel coming down from Bethulia, came to him, and loosing him they brought him to Bethulia, and setting him in the midst of the people, asked him what was the matter, that the Assyrians had left him bound.
    11: In those days the rulers there, were Ozias the son of Micha of the tribe of Simeon, and Charmi, called also Gothoniel. 
    12: And Achior related in the midst of the ancients, and in the presence of all the people, all that he had said being asked by Holofernes: and how the people of Holofernes would have killed him for this word, 
    13: And how Holofernes himself being angry had commanded him to be delivered for this cause to the Israelites: that when he should overcome the children of Israel, then he might command Achior also himself to be put to death by diverse torments, for having said: The God of heaven is their defender. 
    14: And when Achior had declared all these things, all the people fell upon their faces, adoring the Lord, and all of them together mourning and weeping poured out their prayers with one accord to the Lord, 
    15: Saying: O Lord God of heaven and earth, behold their pride, and look on our low condition, and have regard to the face of thy saints, and shew that thou forsakes not them that trust on thee, and that thou humblest them that presume of themselves, and glory in their own strength.
    16: So when their weeping was ended, and the peoples prayer, in which they continued all the day, was concluded, they comforted Achior, 
    17: Saying: the God of our fathers, whose power thou hast set forth, will make this return to thee, that thou rather shalt see their destruction. 
    18: And when the Lord our God shall give this liberty to his servants, let God be with thee also in the midst of us: that as it shall please thee, so thou with all thine mayst converse with us. 
    19: Then Ozias, after the assembly was broken up, received him into his house, and made him a great supper. 
    20: And all the ancients were invited, and they refreshed themselves together after their fast was over.
    21: And afterwards all the people were called together, and they prayed all the night long within the church, desiring help of the God of Israel.

  Chapter 7.

    1: But Holofernes on the next day gave orders to his army, to go up against Bethulia. 
    2: Now there were in his troops a hundred and twenty thousand footmen, and two and twenty thousand horsemen, besides the preparations of those men who had been taken, and who had been brought away out of the provinces and cities of all the youth. 
    3: All these prepared themselves together to fight against the children of Israel, and they came by the hillside to the top, which looketh toward Dothain, from the place which is called Behlma, unto Chelmon, which is over against Esdrelon. 
    4: But the children of Israel, when they saw the multitude of them, prostrated themselves upon the ground, putting ashes upon their heads, praying with one accord, that the God of Israel would shew his mercy upon his people. 
    5: And taking their arms of war, they posted themselves at the places, which by a narrow pathway lead directly between the mountains, and they guarded them all day and night.
    6: Now Holofernes, in going round about, found that the fountains which supplied them with water, ran through an aqueduct without the city on the south side: and he commanded their aqueduct to he cut off. 
    7: Nevertheless there were springs not far from the walls, out of which they were seen secretly to draw water, to refresh themselves a little rather than to drink their fill. 
    8: But the children of Ammon and Moab came to Holofernes, saying: The children of Israel trust not in their spears, nor in their arrows, but the mountains are their defense, and the steep hires and precipices guard them. 
    9: Wherefore that thou mayst overcome them without joining battle, set guards at the springs that they may not draw water out of them, and thou shalt destroy them without sword, or at least being wearied out they will yield up their city, which they suppose, because it is situate in the mountains, to be impregnable. 
    10: And these words pleased Holofernes, and his officers, and he placed all round about a hundred men at every spring.
    11: And when they had kept this watch for full twenty days, the cisterns, and the reserve of waters failed among all the inhabitants of Bethulia, so that there was not within the city, enough to satisfy them, no not for one day, for water was daily given out to the people by measure. 
    12: Then all the men and women, young men, and children, gathering themselves together to Ozias, all together with one voice, 
    13: Said: God be judge between us and thee, for thou hast done evil against us, in that thou wouldst not speak peaceably with the Assyrians, and for this cause God hath sold us into their hands. 
    14: And therefore there is no one to help us, while we are cast down before their eyes in thirst, and sad destruction. 
    15: And now assemble ye all that are in the city, that we may of our own accord yield ourselves all up to the people of Holofernes.
    16: For it is better, that being captives we should live and bless the Lord, than that we should die, and be a reproach to all flesh, after we have seen our wives and our infants die before our eyes. 
    17: We call to witness this day heaven and earth, and the God of our fathers, who taketh vengeance upon us according to our sins, conjuring you to deliver now the city into the hand of the army of Holofernes, that our end may be short by the edge of the sword, which is made longer by the drought of thirst. 
    18: And when they had said these things, there was great weeping and lamentation of all in the assembly, and for many hours with one voice they cried to God, saying: 
    19: We have sinned with our fathers we have done unjustly, we have commited iniquity: 
    20: Have thou mercy on us, because thou art good, or punish our iniquities by chastising us thyself, and deliver not them that trust in thee to a people that knoweth not thee,
    21: That they may not say among the gentiles: Where is their God? 
    22: And when being wearied with these cries, and tired with these weepings, they held their peace, 
    23: Ozias rising up all in tears, said: Be of good courage, my brethren, and let us wait these five days for mercy from the Lord. 
    24: For perhaps he will put a stop to his indignation, and will give glory to his own name. 
    25: But if after five days be past there come no aid, we will do the things which you leave spoken.

  Chapter 8.

    1: Now it came to pass, when Judith a widow had heard these words, who was the daughter of Merari, the son of Idox, the son of Joseph, the son of Ozias, the son of Elai, the son of Jamnor, the son of Gedeon, the son of Raphaim, the son of Achitob, the son of Melehias, the son of Enan, the son of Nathanias, the son of Salathiel, the son of Simeon, the son of Ruben: 
    2: And her husband was Manasses, who died in the time of the barley harvest: 
    3: For he was standing over them that bound sheaves in the field; and the heat came upon his head, and he died in Bethulia his own city, and was buried there with his fathers. 
    4: And Judith his relict was a widow now three years and six months. 
    5: And she made herself a private chamber in the upper part of her house, in which she abode shut up with her maids.
    6: And she wore haircloth upon her loins, and fasted all the days of her life, except the sabbaths, and new moons, and the feasts of the house of Israel. 
    7: And she was exceedingly beautiful, and her husband left her great riches, and very many servants, and large possessions of herds of oxen, and flocks of sheep. 
    8: And she was greatly renowned among all, because she feared the Lord very much, neither was there any one that spoke an ill word of her. 
    9: When therefore she had heard that Ozias had promised that he would deliver up the city after the fifth day, she sent to the ancients Chabri and Charmi. 
    10: And they came to her, and she said to them: What is this word, by which Ozias hath consented to give up the city to the Assyrians, if within five days there come no aid to us?
    11: And who are you that tempt the Lord? 
    12: This is not a word that may draw down mercy, but rather that may stir up wrath, and enkindle indignation. 
    13: You have set a time for the mercy of the Lord, and you have appointed him a day, according to your pleasure. 
    14: But forasmuch as the Lord is patient, let us be penitent for this same thing, and with many tears let us beg his pardon: 
    15: For God will not threaten like man, nor be inflamed to anger like the son of man.
    16: And therefore let us humble our souls before him, and continuing in an humble spirit, in his service: 
    17: Let us ask the Lord with tears, that according to his will so he would shew his mercy to us: that as our heart is troubled by their pride, so also we may glorify in our humility. 
    18: For we have not followed the sins of our fathers, who forsook their God, and worshipped strange gods. 
    19: For which crime they were given up to their enemies, to the sword, and to pillage, and to confusion: but we know no other God but him. 
    20: Let us humbly wait for his consolation, and the Lord our God will require our blood of the afflictions of our enemies, and he will humble all the nations that shall rise up against us, and bring them to disgrace.
    21: And now, brethren, as you are the ancients among the people of God, and their very soul resteth upon you: comfort their hearts by your speech, that they may be mindful how our fathers were tempted that they might be proved, whether they worshipped their God truly. 
    22: They must remember how our father Abraham was tempted, and being proved by many tribulations, was made the friend of God. 
    23: So Isaac, so Jacob, so Moses, and all that have pleased God, passed through many tribulations, remaining faithful. 
    24: But they that did not receive the trials with the fear of the Lord, but uttered their impatience and the reproach of their murmuring against the Lord, 
    25: Were destroyed by the destroyer, and perished by serpents.
    26: As for us therefore let us not revenge ourselves for these things which we suffer. 
    27: But esteeming these very punishments to be less than our sins deserve, let us believe that these scourges of the Lord, with which like servants we are chastised, have happened for our amendment, and not for our destruction. 
    28: And Ozias and the ancients said to her: All things which thou hast spoken are true, and there is nothing to be reprehended in thy words. 
    29: Now therefore pray for us, for thou art a holy woman, and one fearing God. 
    30: And Judith said to them: As you know that what I have been able to say is of God:
    31: So that which I intend to do prove ye if it be of God, and pray that God may strengthen my design. 
    32: You shall stand at the gate this night, and I will go out with my maidservant: and pray ye, that as you have said, in five days the Lord may look down upon his people Israel. 
    33: But I desire that you search not into what I am doing, and till I bring you word let nothing else be done but to pray for me to the Lord our God. 
    34: And Ozias the prince of Juda said to her: Go in peace, and the Lord be with thee to take revenge of our enemies. So returning they departed.

End of day 118.