Day 171:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['109', '110', '111', '112']:

  Chapter 109.

    1: The Lord said to my Lord: Sit thou at my right hand: Until I make thy enemies thy footstool. 
    2: The Lord will send forth the sceptre of thy power out of Sion: rule thou in the midst of thy enemies. 
    3: With thee is the principality in the day of thy strength: in the brightness of the saints: from the womb before the day star I begot thee. 
    4: The Lord hath sworn, and he will not repent: Thou art a priest for ever according to the order of Melchisedech. 
    5: The Lord at thy right hand hath broken kings in the day of his wrath.
    6: He shall judge among nations, he shall fill ruins: he shall crush the heads in the land of the many. 
    7: He shall drink of the torrent in the way: therefore shall he lift up the head.

  Chapter 110.

    1: I will praise thee, O Lord, with my whole heart; in the council of the just: and in the congregation. 
    2: Great are the works of the Lord: sought out according to all his wills. 
    3: His work is praise and magnificence: and his justice continueth for ever and ever. 
    4: He hath made a remembrance of his wonderful works, being a merciful and gracious Lord: 
    5: He hath given food to them that fear him. He will be mindful for ever of his covenant:
    6: He will shew forth to his people the power of his works. 
    7: That he may give them the inheritance of the Gentiles: the works of his hands are truth and judgment. 
    8: All his commandments are faithful: confirmed for ever and ever, made in truth and equity. 
    9: He hath sent redemption to his people: he hath commanded his covenant for ever. Holy and terrible is his name: 
    10: The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. A good understanding to all that do it: his praise continueth for ever and ever.

  Chapter 111.

    1: Blessed is the man that feareth the Lord: he shall delight exceedingly in his commandments. 
    2: His seed shall be mighty upon earth: the generation of the righteous shall be blessed. 
    3: Glory and wealth shall be in his house: and his justice remaineth for ever and ever. 
    4: To the righteous a light is risen up in darkness: he is merciful, and compassionate and just. 
    5: Acceptable is the man that sheweth mercy and lendeth: he shall order his words with judgment:
    6: Because he shall not be moved for ever. 
    7: The just shall be in everlasting remembrance: he shall not fear the evil hearing. His heart is ready to hope in the Lord: 
    8: His heart is strengthened, he shall not be moved until he look over his enemies. 
    9: He hath distributed, he hath given to the poor: his justice remaineth for ever and ever: his horn shall be exalted in glory. 
    10: The wicked shall see, and shall be angry, he shall gnash with his teeth and pine away: the desire of the wicked shall perish.

  Chapter 112.

    1: Praise the Lord, ye children: praise ye the name of the Lord. 
    2: Blessed be the name of the Lord, from henceforth now and for ever. 
    3: From the rising of the sun unto the going down of the same, the name of the Lord is worthy of praise. 
    4: The Lord is high above all nations; and his glory above the heavens. 
    5: Who is as the Lord our God, who dwelleth on high:
    6: And looketh down on the low things in heaven and in earth? 
    7: Raising up the needy from the earth, and lifting up the poor out of the dunghill: 
    8: That he may place him with princes, with the princes of his people. 
    9: Who maketh a barren woman to dwell in a house, the joyful mother of children.

End of day 171.