Day 22:

Reading Exodus, chapters ['33', '34', '35', '36']:

  Chapter 33.

    1: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: Go, get thee up from this place, thou and thy people which thou has brought out of the land of Egypt, into the land concerning which I swore to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, saying: To thy seed I will give it. 
    2: And I will send an angel before thee, that I may cast out the Chanaanite, and the Amorrhite, and the Hethite, and the Pherezite, and the Hevite, and the Jebusite. 
    3: That thou mayst enter into the land that floweth with milk and honey. For I will not go up with thee, because thou art a stiffnecked people: lest I destroy thee in the way. 
    4: And the people hearing these very bad tidings, mourned: and no man put on his ornaments according to custom. 
    5: And the Lord said to Moses: Say to the children of Israel: Thou are a stiffnecked people; once I shall come up in the midst of thee, and shall destroy thee. Now presently lay aside thy ornaments, that I may know what to do with thee.
    6: So the children of Israel laid aside their ornaments by mount Horeb. 
    7: Moses also taking the tabernacle, pitched it without the camp afar off, and called the name thereof, The tabernacle of the covenant. And all the people that had any question, went forth to the tabernacle of the covenant, without the camp. 
    8: And when Moses went forth to the tabernacle, all the people rose up, and every one stood in the door of his pavilion, and they beheld the back of Moses, till he went into the tabernacle. 
    9: And when he was gone into the tabernacle of the covenant, the pillar of the cloud came down, and stood at the door, and he spoke with Moses. 
    10: And all saw that the pillar of the cloud stood at the door of the tabernacle. And they stood, and worshipped at the doors of their tents.
    11: And the Lord spoke to Moses face to face, as a man is wont to speak to his friend. And when he returned into the camp, his servant Josue the son of Nun, a young man, departed not from the tabernacle. 
    12: And Moses said to the Lord; Thou commandest me to lead forth this people: and thou dost not let me know whom thou wilt send with me, especially whereas thou hast said: I know thee by name, and thou hast found favour in my sight. 
    13: If therefore I have found favour in thy sight, shew me thy face, that I may know thee, and may find grace before thy eyes: look upon thy people this nation. 
    14: And the Lord said: My face shall go before thee, and I will give thee rest. 
    15: And Moses said: If thou thyself dost not go before, bring us not out of this place.
    16: For how shall we be able to know, I and thy people, that we have found grace in thy sight, unless thou walk with us, that we may be glorified by all people that dwell upon the earth? 
    17: And the Lord said to Moses: This word also, which thou hast spoken, will I do: for thou hast found grace before me, and thee I have known by name. 
    18: And he said: shew me thy glory. 
    19: He answered: I will shew thee all good, and I will proclaim in the name of the Lord before thee: and I will have mercy on whom I will, and I will be merciful to whom it shall please me. 
    20: And again he said: Thou canst not see my face: for man shall not see me and live.
    21: And again he said: Behold there is a place with me, and thou shalt stand upon the rock. 
    22: And when my glory shall pass, I will set thee in a hole of the rock, and protect thee with my right hand, till I pass: 
    23: And I will take away my hand, and thou shalt see my back parts: but my face thou canst not see.

  Chapter 34.

    1: And after this he said: Hew thee two tables of stone like unto the former, and I will write upon them the words which were in the tables, which thou brokest. 
    2: Be ready in the morning, that thou mayst forthwith go up into mount Sinai, and thou shalt stand with me upon the top of the mount. 
    3: Let no man go up with thee: and let not any man be seen throughout all the mount: neither let the oxen nor the sheep feed over against it. 
    4: Then he cut out two tables of stone, such as had been before: and rising very early he went up into the mount Sinai, as the Lord had commanded him, carrying with him the tables. 
    5: And when the Lord was come down in a cloud, Moses stood with him, calling upon the name of the Lord.
    6: And when he passed before him, he said: O the Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious, patient and of much compassion, and true, 
    7: Who keepest mercy unto thousands: who takest away iniquity, and wickedness, and sin, and no man of himself is innocent before thee. Who renderest the iniquity of the fathers to the children, and to the grandchildren, unto the third and fourth generation. 
    8: And Moses making haste, bowed down prostrate unto the earth, and adoring, 
    9: Said: If I have found grace in thy sight: O Lord, I beseech thee, that thou wilt go with us, (for it is a stiffnecked people,) and take away our iniquities and sin, and possess us. 
    10: The Lord answered: I will make a covenant in the sight of all. I will do signs such as were never seen upon the earth, nor in any nation: that this people, in the midst of whom thou art, may see the terrible work of the Lord which I will do.
    11: Observe all things which this day I command thee: I myself will drive out before thy face the Amorrhite, and the Chanaanite, and the Hethite, and the Pherezite, and the Hevite, and the Jebusite. 
    12: Beware thou never join in friendship with the inhabitants of that land, which may be thy ruin: 
    13: But destroy their altars, break their statues, and cut down their groves: 
    14: Adore not any strange god. The Lord his name is Jealous, he is a jealous God. 
    15: Make no covenant with the men of those countries lest, when they have committed fornication with their gods, and have adored their idols, some one call thee to eat of the things sacrificed.
    16: Neither shalt thou take of their daughters a wife for thy son, lest after they themselves have committed fornication, they make thy sons also to commit fornication with their gods. 
    17: Thou shalt not make to thyself any molten gods. 
    18: Thou shalt keep the feast of the unleavened bread. Seven days shalt thou eat unleavened bread, as I commanded thee in the time of the month of the new corn: for in the month of the springtime thou camest out from Egypt. 
    19: All of the male kind, that openeth the womb, shall be mine. Of all beasts, both of oxen and of sheep, it shall be mine. 
    20: The firstling of an ass thou shalt redeem with a sheep: but if thou wilt not give a price for it, it shall be slain. The firstborn of thy sons thou shalt redeem: neither shalt thou appear before me empty.
    21: Six days shalt thou work, the seventh day thou shalt cease to plough, and to reap. 
    22: Thou shalt keep the feast of weeks with the firstfruits of the corn of thy wheat harvest, and the feast when the time of the year returneth that all things are laid in. 
    23: Three times in a year all thy males shall appear in the sight of the Almighty Lord the God of Israel. 
    24: For when I shall have taken away the nations from thy face, and shall have enlarged thy borders, no man shall lie in wait against thy land when thou shalt go up, and appear in the sight of the Lord thy God thrice in a year. 
    25: Thou shalt not offer the blood of my sacrifice upon leaven: neither shall there remain in the morning any thing of the victim of the solemnity of the Lord.
    26: The first of the fruits of thy ground thou shalt offer in the house of the Lord thy God. Thou shalt not boil a kid in the milk of his dam. 
    27: And the Lord said to Moses: Write these words by which I have made a covenant both with thee and with Israel. 
    28: And he was there with the Lord forty days and forty nights: he neither ate bread nor drank water, and he wrote upon the tables the ten words of the covenant. 
    29: And when Moses came down from the mount Sinai, he held the two tables of the testimony, and he knew not that his face was horned from the conversation of the Lord. 
    30: And Aaron and the children of Israel seeing the face of Moses horned, were afraid to come near.
    31: And being called by him, they returned, both Aaron and the rulers of the congregation. And after that he spoke to them. 
    32: And all the children of Israel came to him: and he gave them in commandment all that he had heard of the Lord in mount Sinai. 
    33: And having done speaking, he put a veil upon his face. 
    34: But when he went in to the Lord, and spoke with him, he took it away until he came forth, and then he spoke to the children of Israel all things that had been commanded him. 
    35: And they saw that the face of Moses when he came out was horned, but he covered his face again, if at any time he spoke to them.

  Chapter 35.

    1: And all the multitude of the children of Israel being gathered together, he said to them: These are the things which the Lord hath commanded to be done. 
    2: Six days you shall do work: the seventh day shall be holy unto you, the sabbath, and the rest of the Lord: he that shall do any work on it, shall be put to death. 
    3: You shall kindle no fire in any of your habitations on the sabbath day. 
    4: And Moses said to all the assembly of the children of Israel: This is the word the Lord hath commanded, saying: 
    5: Set aside with you firstfruits to the Lord. Let every one that is willing and hath a ready heart, offer them to the Lord: gold, and silver, and brass,
    6: Violet and purple, and scarlet twice dyed, and fine linen, goats' hair, 
    7: And rams' skins dyed red, and violet coloured skins, setim wood, 
    8: And oil to maintain lights, and to make ointment, and most sweet incense. 
    9: Onyx stones, and precious stones, for the adorning of the ephod and the rational. 
    10: Whosoever of you is wise, let him come, and make that which the Lord hath commanded:
    11: To wit, the tabernacle and the roof thereof, and the cover, the rings, and the board work with the oars, the pillars, and the sockets: 
    12: The ark and the staves, the propitiatory, and the veil that is drawn before it: 
    13: The table with the bars and the vessels, and the loaves of proposition: 
    14: The candlestick to bear up the lights, the vessels thereof and the lamps, and the oil for the nourishing of fires: 
    15: The altar of incense, and the bars, and the oil of unction and the incense of spices: the hanging at the door of the tabernacle:
    16: The altar of holocaust, and its grate of brass, with the bars and vessels thereof: the laver and its foot: 
    17: The curtains of the court with the pillars and the sockets, the hanging in the doors of the entry, 
    18: The pins of the tabernacle and of the court with their little cords: 
    19: The vestments that are to be used in the ministry of the sanctuary, the vesture of Aaron the high priest, and of his sons, to do the office of priesthood to me. 
    20: And all the multitude of the children of Israel going out from the presence of Moses,
    21: Offered firstfruits to the Lord with a most ready and devout mind, to make the work of the tabernacle of the testimony. Whatsoever was necessary to the service, and to the holy vestments, 
    22: Both men and women gave bracelets and earrings, rings and tablets: every vessel of gold was set aside to be offered to the Lord. 
    23: If any man had violet, and purple, and scarlet twice dyed, fine linen and goats' hair, rams' skins dyed red, and violet coloured skins, 
    24: Metal of silver and brass, they offered it to the Lord, and setim wood for divers uses. 
    25: The skillful women also gave such things as they had spun, violet, purple, and scarlet, and fine linen,
    26: And goats' hair, giving all of their own accord. 
    27: But the princes offered onyx stone, and precious stones, for the ephod and the rational, 
    28: And spices and oil for the lights, and for the preparing of ointment, and to make the incense of most sweet savour. 
    29: All both men and women with devout mind offered gifts, that the works might be done which the Lord had commanded by the hand of Moses. All the children of Israel dedicated voluntary offerings to the Lord. 
    30: And Moses said to the children of Israel: Behold the Lord hath called by name Beseleel the son of Uri the son of Hur of the tribe of Juda.
    31: And hath filled him with the spirit of God, with wisdom and understanding and knowledge and all learning. 
    32: To devise and to work in gold and silver and brass, 
    33: And in engraving stones, and in carpenters' work. Whatsoever can be devised artificially, 
    34: He hath given in his heart: Ooliab also the son of Achisamech of the tribe of Dan: 
    35: Both of them hath he instructed with wisdom, to do carpenters' work and tapestry, and embroidery in blue and purple, and scarlet twice dyed, and fine linen, and to weave all things, and to invent all new things.

  Chapter 36.

    1: Beseleel, therefore, and Ooliab, and every wise man, to whom the Lord gave wisdom and understanding, to know how to work artificially, made the things that are necessary for the uses of the sanctuary, and which the Lord commanded. 
    2: And when Moses had called them, and every skillful man, to whom the Lord had given wisdom, and such as of their own accord had offered themselves to the making of the work, 
    3: He delivered all the offerings of the children of Israel unto them. And while they were earnest about the work, the people daily in the morning offered their vows. 
    4: Whereupon the workmen being constrained to come, 
    5: Said to Moses: The people offereth more than is necessary.
    6: Moses therefore commanded proclamation to be made by the crier's voice: Let neither man nor woman offer any more for the work of the sanctuary. And so they ceased from offering gifts, 
    7: Because the things that were offered did suffice, and were too much. 
    8: And all the men that were wise of heart, to accomplish the work of the tabernacle, made ten curtains of twisted fine linen, and violet, and purple, and scarlet twice dyed, with varied work, and the art of embroidering: 
    9: The length of one curtain was twenty-eight cubits, and the breadth four: all the curtains were of the same size. 
    10: And he joined five curtains, one to another, and the other five he coupled one to another.
    11: He made also loops of violet in the edge of the curtain on both sides, and in the edge of the other curtain in like manner, 
    12: That the loops might meet on against another, and might be joined each with the other. 
    13: Whereupon also he cast fifty rings of gold, that might catch the loops of the curtains, and they might be made one tabernacle. 
    14: He made also eleven curtains of goats' hair, to cover the roof of the tabernacle: 
    15: One curtain was thirty cubits long and four cubits broad: all the curtains were of one measure.
    16: Five of which he joined apart, and the other six apart. 
    17: And he made fifty loops in the edge of one curtain, and fifty in the edge of another curtain, that they might be joined one to another. 
    18: And fifty buckles of brass wherewith the roof might be knit together, that of all the curtains there might be made one covering. 
    19: He made also a cover for the tabernacle of rams' skins dyed red: and another cover over that of violet skins. 
    20: He made also the boards of the tabernacle of setim wood standing.
    21: The length of one board was ten cubits: and the breadth was one cubit and a half. 
    22: There were two mortises throughout every board, that one might be joined to the other. And in this manner he made for all the boards of the tabernacle. 
    23: Of which twenty were at the south side southward, 
    24: With forty sockets of silver, two sockets were put under one board on the two sides of the corners, where the mortises of the sides end in the corners. 
    25: At that side also of the tabernacle, that looketh toward the north, he made twenty boards.
    26: With forty sockets of silver, two sockets for every board. 
    27: But against the west, to wit, at that side of the tabernacle, which looketh to the sea, he made six boards, 
    28: And two others at each corner of the tabernacle behind: 
    29: Which were also joined from beneath unto the top, and went together into one joint. Thus he did on both sides at the corners: 
    30: So there were in all eight boards and they had sixteen sockets of silver, to wit, two sockets under every board.
    31: He made also bars of setim wood, five to hold together the boards of one side of the tabernacle, 
    32: And five others to join together the boards of the other side: and besides these, five other bars at the west side of the tabernacle towards the sea. 
    33: He made also another bar, that might come by the midst of the boards from corner to corner. 
    34: And the board works themselves he overlaid with gold, casting for them sockets of silver. And their rings he made of gold, through which the bars might be drawn: and he covered the bars themselves with plates of gold. 
    35: He made also a veil of violet, and purple, scarlet, and fine twisted linen, varied and distinguished with embroidery:
    36: And four pillars of setim wood, which with their heads be overlaid with gold, casting for them sockets of silver. 
    37: He made also a hanging in the entry of the tabernacle of violet, purple, scarlet, and fine twisted linen, with the work of an embroiderer. 
    38: And five pillars with their heads, which he covered with gold, and their sockets he cast of brass.

End of day 22.