Day 335:

Reading 1-Timothy, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, according to the commandment of God our Saviour, and of Christ Jesus our hope: 
    2: To Timothy, his beloved son in faith. Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father, and from Christ Jesus our Lord. 
    3: As I desired thee to remain at Ephesus when I went into Macedonia, that thou mightest charge some not to teach otherwise, 
    4: Not to give heed to fables and endless genealogies: which furnish questions rather than the edification of God, which is in faith. 
    5: Now the end of the commandment is charity, from a pure heart, and a good conscience, and an unfeigned faith.
    6: From which things some going astray, are turned aside unto vain babbling: 
    7: Desiring to be teachers of the law, understanding neither the things they say, nor whereof they affirm. 
    8: But we know that the law is good, if a man use it lawfully: 
    9: Knowing this, that the law is not made for the just man, but for the unjust and disobedient, for the ungodly, and for sinners, for the wicked and defiled, for murderers of fathers, and murderers of mothers, for manslayers, 
    10: For fornicators, for them who defile themselves with mankind, for menstealers, for liars, for perjured persons, and whatever other thing is contrary to sound doctrine,
    11: Which is according to the gospel of the glory of the blessed God, which hath been committed to my trust. 
    12: I give thanks who hath strengthened me, even to Christ Jesus our Lord, for that he hath counted me faithful, putting me in the ministry; 
    13: Who before was a blasphemer, and a persecutor, and contumelious. But I obtained the mercy of God, because I did it ignorantly in unbelief. 
    14: Now the grace of our Lord hath abounded exceedingly with faith and love, which is in Christ Jesus. 
    15: A faithful saying, and worthy of all acceptation, that Christ Jesus came into this world to save sinners, of whom I am the chief.
    16: But for this cause have I obtained mercy: that in me first Christ Jesus might shew forth all patience, for the information of them that shall believe in him unto life everlasting. 
    17: Now to the king of ages, immortal, invisible, the only God, be honour and glory for ever and ever. Amen. 
    18: This precept I commend to thee, O son Timothy; according to the prophecies going before on thee, that thou war in them a good warfare, 
    19: Having faith and a good conscience, which some rejecting have made shipwreck concerning the faith. 
    20: Of whom is Hymeneus and Alexander, whom I have delivered up to Satan, that they may learn not to blaspheme.

  Chapter 2.

    1: I desire therefore, first of all, that supplications, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgivings be made for all men: 
    2: For kings, and for all that are in high station: that we may lead a quiet and a peaceable life in all piety and chastity. 
    3: For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Saviour, 
    4: Who will have all men to be saved, and to come to the knowledge of the truth. 
    5: For there is one God, and one mediator of God and men, the man Christ Jesus:
    6: Who gave himself a redemption for all, a testimony in due times. 
    7: Whereunto I am appointed a preacher and an apostle, (I say the truth, I lie not,) a doctor of the Gentiles in faith and truth. 
    8: I will therefore that men pray in every place, lifting up pure hands, without anger and contention. 
    9: In like manner women also in decent apparel: adorning themselves with modesty and sobriety, not with plaited hair, or gold, or pearls, or costly attire, 
    10: But as it becometh women professing godliness, with good works.
    11: Let the woman learn in silence, with all subjection. 
    12: But I suffer not a woman to teach, nor to use authority over the man: but to be in silence. 
    13: For Adam was first formed; then Eve. 
    14: And Adam was not seduced; but the woman being seduced, was in the transgression. 
    15: Yet she shall be saved through childbearing; if she continue in faith, and love, and sanctification, with sobriety.

  Chapter 3.

    1: A faithful saying: if a man desire the office of a bishop, he desireth a good work. 
    2: It behoveth therefore a bishop to be blameless, the husband of one wife, sober, prudent, of good behaviour, chaste, given to hospitality, a teacher, 
    3: Not given to wine, no striker, but modest, not quarrelsome, not covetous, but 
    4: One that ruleth well his own house, having his children in subjection with all chastity. 
    5: But if a man know not how to rule his own house, how shall he take care of the church of God?
    6: Not a neophyte: lest being puffed up with pride, he fall into the judgment of the devil. 
    7: Moreover he must have a good testimony of them who are without: lest he fall into reproach and the snare of the devil. 
    8: Deacons in like manner chaste, not double tongued, not given to much wine, not greedy of filthy lucre: 
    9: Holding the mystery of faith in a pure conscience. 
    10: And let these also first be proved: and so let them minister, having no crime.
    11: The women in like manner chaste, not slanderers, but sober, faithful in all things. 
    12: Let deacons be the husbands of one wife: who rule well their children, and their own houses. 
    13: For they that have ministered well, shall purchase to themselves a good degree, and much confidence in the faith which is in Christ Jesus. 
    14: These things I write to thee, hoping that I shall come to thee shortly. 
    15: But if I tarry long, that thou mayest know how thou oughtest to behave thyself in the house of God, which is the church of the living God, the pillar and ground of the truth.
    16: And evidently great is the mystery of godliness, which was manifested in the flesh, was justified in the spirit, appeared unto angels, hath been preached unto the Gentiles, is believed in the world, is taken up in glory.

  Chapter 4.

    1: Now the Spirit manifestly saith, that in the last times some shall depart from the faith, giving heed to spirits of error, and doctrines of devils, 
    2: Speaking lies in hypocrisy, and having their conscience seared, 
    3: Forbidding to marry, to abstain from meats, which God hath created to be received with thanksgiving by the faithful, and by them that have known the truth. 
    4: For every creature of God is good, and nothing to be rejected that is received with thanksgiving: 
    5: For it is sanctified by the word of God and prayer.
    6: These things proposing to the brethren, thou shalt be a good minister of Christ Jesus, nourished up in the words of faith, and of the good doctrine which thou hast attained unto. 
    7: But avoid foolish and old wives' fables: and exercise thyself unto godliness. 
    8: For bodily exercise is profitable to little: but godliness is profitable to all things, having promise of the life that now is, and of that which is to come. 
    9: A faithful saying and worthy of all acceptation. 
    10: For therefore we labor and are reviled, because we hope in the living God, who is the Saviour of all men, especially of the faithful.
    11: These things command and teach. 
    12: Let no man despise thy youth: but be thou an example of the faithful in word, in conversation, in charity, in faith, in chastity. 
    13: Till I come, attend unto reading, to exhortation, and to doctrine. 
    14: Neglect not the grace that is in thee, which was given thee by prophesy, with imposition of the hands of the priesthood. 
    15: Meditate upon these things, be wholly in these things: that thy profiting may be manifest to all.
    16: Take heed to thyself and to doctrine: be earnest in them. For in doing this thou shalt both save thyself and them that hear thee.

End of day 335.