Day 178:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['137', '138', '139', '140']:

  Chapter 137.

    1: I will praise thee, O lord, with my whole heart: for thou hast heard the words of my mouth. I will sing praise to thee in the sight of his angels: 
    2: I will worship towards thy holy temple, and I will give glory to thy name. For thy mercy, and for thy truth: for thou hast magnified thy holy name above all. 
    3: In what day soever I shall call upon thee, hear me: thou shall multiply strength in my soul. 
    4: May all the kings of the earth give glory to thee: for they have heard all the words of thy mouth. 
    5: And let them sing in the ways of the Lord: for great is the glory of the Lord.
    6: For the Lord is high, and looketh on the low: and the high he knoweth afar off. 
    7: If I shall walk in the midst of tribulation, thou wilt quicken me: and thou hast stretched forth thy hand against the wrath of my enemies: and thy right hand hath saved me. 
    8: The Lord will repay for me: thy mercy, O Lord, endureth for ever: O despise not the work of thy hands.

  Chapter 138.

    1: Lord, thou hast proved me, and known me: 
    2: Thou hast know my sitting down, and my rising up. 
    3: Thou hast understood my thoughts afar off: my path and my line thou hast searched out. 
    4: And thou hast foreseen all my ways: for there is no speech in my tongue. 
    5: Behold, O Lord, thou hast known all things, the last and those of old: thou hast formed me, and hast laid thy hand upon me.
    6: Thy knowledge is become wonderful to me: it is high, and I cannot reach to it. 
    7: Whither shall I go from thy spirit? or whither shall I flee from thy face? 
    8: If I ascend into heaven, thou art there: if I descend into hell, thou art present. 
    9: If I take my wings early in the morning, and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea: 
    10: Even there also shall thy hand lead me: and thy right hand shall hold me.
    11: And I said: Perhaps darkness shall cover me: and night shall be my light in my pleasures. 
    12: But darkness shall not be dark to thee, and night shall be light as day: the darkness thereof, and the light thereof are alike to thee. 
    13: For thou hast possessed my reins: thou hast protected me from my mother's womb. 
    14: I will praise thee, for thou art fearfully magnified: wonderful are thy works, and my soul knoweth right well. 
    15: My bone is not hidden from thee, which thou hast made in secret: and my substance in the lower parts of the earth.
    16: Thy eyes did see my imperfect being, and in thy book all shall be written: days shall be formed, and no one in them. 
    17: But to me thy friends, O God, are made exceedingly honourable: their principality is exceedingly strengthened. 
    18: I will number them, and they shall be multiplied above the sand: I rose up and am still with thee. 
    19: If thou wilt kill the wicked, O God: ye men of blood, depart from me: 
    20: Because you say in thought: They shall receive thy cities in vain.
    21: Have I not hated them, O Lord, that hated thee: and pine away because of thy enemies? 
    22: I have hated them with a perfect hatred: and they are become enemies to me. 
    23: Prove me, O God, and know my heart: examine me, and know my paths. 
    24: And see if there be in me the way of iniquity: and lead me in the eternal way.

  Chapter 139.

    1: Unto the end, a psalm for David. 
    2: Deliver me, O Lord, from the evil man: rescue me from the unjust man. 
    3: Who have devised iniquities in their hearts: all the day long they designed battles. 
    4: They have sharpened their tongues like a serpent: the venom of asps is under their lips. 
    5: Keep me, O Lord, from the hand of the wicked: and from unjust men deliver me. Who have proposed to supplant my steps.
    6: The proud have hidden a net for me. And they have stretched out cords for a snare: they have laid for me a stumblingblock by the wayside. 
    7: I said to the Lord: Thou art my God: hear, O Lord, the voice of my supplication. 
    8: O Lord, Lord, the strength of my salvation: thou hast overshadowed my head in the day of battle. 
    9: Give me not up, O Lord, from my desire to the wicked: they have plotted against me; do not thou forsake me, lest they should triumph. 
    10: The head of them compassing me about: the labour of their lips shall overwhelm them.
    11: Burning coals shall fall upon them; thou wilt cast them down into the fire: in miseries they shall not be able to stand. 
    12: A man full of tongue shall not be established in the earth: evil shall catch the unjust man unto destruction. 
    13: I know that the Lord will do justice to the needy, and will revenge the poor. 
    14: But as for the just, they shall give glory to thy name: and the upright shall dwell with thy countenance.

  Chapter 140.

    1: I have cried to the, O Lord, hear me: hearken to my voice, when I cry to thee. 
    2: Let my prayer be directed as incense in thy sight; the lifting up of my hands, as evening sacrifice. 
    3: Set a watch, O Lord, before my mouth: and a door round about my lips. 
    4: Incline not my heart to evil words; to make excuses in sins. With men that work iniquity: and I will not communicate with the choicest of them. 
    5: The just shall correct me in mercy, and shall reprove me: but let not the oil of the sinner fatten my head. For my prayer also shall still be against the things with which they are well pleased:
    6: Their judges falling upon the rock have been swallowed up. They shall hear my words, for they have prevailed: 
    7: As when the thickness of the earth is broken up upon the ground: Our bones are scattered by the side of hell. 
    8: But o to thee, O Lord, Lord, are my eyes: in thee have I put my trust, take not away my soul. 
    9: Keep me from the snare, which they have laid for me, and from the stumblingblocks of them that work iniquity. 
    10: The wicked shall fall in his net: I am alone until I pass.

End of day 178.