Day 224:

Reading Isaiah, chapters ['45', '46', '47', '48']:

  Chapter 45.

    1: Thus saith the Lord to my anointed Cyrus, whose right hand I have taken hold of, to subdue nations before his face, and to turn the backs of kings, and to open the doors before him, and the gates shall not be shut. 
    2: I will go before thee, and will humble the great ones of the earth: I will break in pieces the gates of brass, and will burst the bars of iron. 
    3: And I will give thee hidden treasures, and the concealed riches of secret places: that thou mayest know that I am the Lord who call thee by thy name, the God of Israel. 
    4: For the sake of my servant Jacob, and Israel my elect, I have even called thee by thy name: I have made a likeness of thee, and thou hast not known me. 
    5: I am the Lord, and there is none else: there is no God, besides me: I girded thee, and thou hast not known me:
    6: That they may know who are from the rising of the sun, and they who are from the west, that there is none besides me. I am the Lord, and there is none else: 
    7: I form the light, and create darkness, I make peace, and create evil: I the Lord that do all these things. 
    8: Drop down dew, ye heavens, from above, and let the clouds rain the just: let the earth be opened, and bud forth a saviour: and let justice spring up together: I the Lord have created him. 
    9: Woe to him that gainsayeth his maker, a sherd of the earthen pots: shall the clay say to him that fashioneth it: What art thou making, and thy work is without hands? 
    10: Woe to him that saith to his father: Why begettest thou? and to the woman: Why dost thou bring forth?
    11: Thus saith the Lord the Holy One of Israel, his maker: Ask me of things to come, concerning my children, and concerning the work of my hands give ye charge to me. 
    12: I made the earth: and I created man upon it: my hand stretched forth the heavens, and I have commanded all their host. 
    13: I have raised him up to justice, and I will direct all his ways: he shall build my city, and let go my captives, not for ransom, nor for presents, saith the Lord the God of hosts. 
    14: Thus saith the Lord: The labour of Egypt, and the merchandise of Ethiopia, and of Sabaim, men of stature shall come over to thee, and shall be thins: they shall walk after thee, they shall go bound with manacles: and they shall worship thee, and shall make supplication to thee: only in thee is God, and there is no God besides thee. 
    15: Verily thou art a hidden God, the God of Israel the saviour.
    16: They are all confounded and ashamed: the forgers of errors are gone together into confusion. 
    17: Israel is saved in the Lord with as eternal salvation: you shall not be confounded, and you shall not be ashamed for ever and ever. 
    18: For thus saith the Lord that created the heavens, God himself that formed the earth, and made it, the very maker thereof: he did not create it in vain: he formed it to be inhabited. I am the Lord, and there is no other. 
    19: I have not spoken in secret, in a dark place of the earth: I have not said to the seed of Jacob: Seek me in vain. I am the Lord that speak justice, that declare right things. 
    20: Assemble yourselves, and come, and draw near together, ye that are saved of the Gentiles: they have no knowledge that set up the wood of their graven work, and pray to a god that cannot save.
    21: Tell ye, and come, and consult together: who hath declared this from the beginning, who hath foretold this from that time? Have not I the Lord, and there is no God else besides me? A just God and a saviour, there is none besides me. 
    22: Be converted to me, and you shall be saved, all ye ends of the earth: for I am God, and there is no other. 
    23: I have sworn by myself, the word of justice shall go out of my mouth, and shall not return: 
    24: For every knee shall be bowed to me, and every tongue shall swear. 
    25: Therefore shall he say: In the Lord are my justices and empire: they shall come to him, and all that resist him shall be confounded.
    26: In the Lord shall all the seed of Israel be justified and praised.

  Chapter 46.

    1: Bel is broken, Nebo is destroyed: their idols are put upon beasts and cattle, your burdens of heavy weight even unto weariness. 
    2: They are consumed, and are broken together: they could not save him that carried them, and they themselves shall go into captivity. 
    3: Hearken unto me, O house of Jacob, all the remnant of the house of Israel, who are carried by my bowels, are borne up by my womb. 
    4: Even to your old age I am the same, and to your grey hairs I will carry you: I have made you, and I will bear: I will carry and will save. 
    5: To whom have you likened me, and made me equal, and compared me, and made me like?
    6: You that contribute gold out of the bag, and weigh out silver in the scales: and hire a goldsmith to make a god: and they fall down and worship. 
    7: They bear him on their shoulders and carry him, and set him in his piece, and he shall stand, and shall not stir out of his place. Yea, when they shall cry also unto him, he shall not hear: he shall not save them from tribulation. 
    8: Remember this, and be ashamed: return, ye transgressors, to the heart. 
    9: Remember the former age, for I am God, and there is no God beside, neither is there the like to me: 
    10: Who shew from the beginning the things that shall be at last, and from ancient times the things that as yet are not done, saying: My counsel shall stand, and all my will shall be done:
    11: Who call a bird from the east, and from a far country the man of my own will, and I have spoken, and will bring it to pass: I have created, and I will do it. Hear me, O ye hardhearted, who are far from justice. 
    12: I have brought my justice near, it shall not be afar off: and my salvation shall not tarry. I will give salvation in Sion, and my glory in Israel.

  Chapter 47.

    1: Come down, sit in the dust, O virgin daughter of Babylon, sit on the ground: there is no throne for the daughter of the Chaldeans, for thou shalt no more be called delicate and tender. 
    2: Take a millstone and grind meal: uncover thy shame, strip thy shoulder, make bare thy legs, pass over the rivers. 
    3: Thy nakedness shall be discovered, and thy shame shall be seen: I will take vengeance, and no man shall resist me. 
    4: Our redeemer, the Lord of hosts is his name, the Holy One of Israel. 
    5: Sit thou silent, and get thee into darkness, O daughter of the Chaldeans: for thou shalt no more be called the lady of kingdoms.
    6: I was angry with my people, I have polluted my inheritance, and have given them into thy bend: thou hast shewn no mercy to them: upon the ancient thou hast laid thy yoke exceeding heavy. 
    7: And thou hast said: I shall be a lady for ever: thou hast not laid these things to thy heart, neither hast thou remembered thy latter end. 
    8: And now hear these things, thou that art delicate, and dwellest confidently, that sayest in thy heart: I am, and there is none else besides me: I shall not sit as a widow, and I shall not know barrenness. 
    9: These two things shall come upon thee suddenly in one day, barrenness and widowhood. All things are come upon thee, because of the multitude of thy sorceries, and for the great hardness of thy enchanters. 
    10: And thou hast trusted in thy wickedness, and hast said: There is none that seeth me. Thy wisdom, and thy knowledge, this hath deceived thee. And thou hast said in thy heart: I am, and besides me there is no other.
    11: Evil shall come upon thee, and then shalt not know the rising thereof: and calamity shall fall violently upon thee, which thou canst not keep off: misery shall come upon thee suddenly, which thou shalt not know. 
    12: Stand now with thy enchanters, and with the multitude of thy sorceries, in which thou hast laboured from thy youth, if so be it may profit thee any thing, or if thou mayst become stronger. 
    13: Thou hast failed in the multitude or thy counsels: let now the astrologers stand and save thee, they that gazed at the stars, and counted the months, that from them they might tell the things that shall come to thee. 
    14: Behold they are as stubble, fire hath burnt them, they shall not deliver themselves from the power of the flames: there are no coals wherewith they may be warmed, nor fire, that they may sit thereat. 
    15: Such are all the things become to thee, in which thou hast laboured: thy merchants from thy youth, every one hath erred in his own way, there is none that can save thee.

  Chapter 48.

    1: Hear ye these things, O house of Jacob, you that are called by the name of Israel, and are come forth out of the waters of Juda, you who swear by the name of the Lord, and make mention of the God of Israel, but not in truth, nor in justice. 
    2: For they are called of the holy city, and are established upon the God of Israel: the Lord of hosts is his name. 
    3: The former things of old I have declared, and they went forth out of my mouth, and I have made them to be heard: I did them suddenly and they came to pass. 
    4: For I knew that thou art stubborn, and thy neck is as an iron sinew, and thy forehead as brass. 
    5: I foretold thee of old, before they came to pass I told thee, lest thou shouldst say: My idols have done these things, and my graven and molten things have commanded them.
    6: See now all the things which thou hast heard: but have you declared them? I have shewn thee new things from that time, and things are kept which thou knowest not: 
    7: They are created now, and not of old: and before the day, when thou heardest them not, lest thou shouldst say: Behold I knew them. 
    8: Thou hast neither heard, nor known, neither was thy ear opened of old. For I know that transgressing thou wilt transgress, and I have called thee a transgressor from the womb. 
    9: For my name's sake I will remove my wrath far off: and for my praise I will bridle thee, lest thou shouldst perish. 
    10: Behold I have refined thee, but not as silver, I have chosen thee in the furnace of poverty.
    11: For my own sake, for my own sake will I do it, that I may not be blasphemed: and I will not give my glory to another. 
    12: Hearken to me, O Jacob, and thou Israel whom I call: I am he, I am the first, and I am the last. 
    13: My hand also hath founded the earth, and my right hand hath measured the heavens: I shall call them, and they shall stand together. 
    14: Assemble yourselves together, all you, and hear: who among them hath declared these things? the Lord hath loved him, he will do his pleasure in Babylon, and his arm shall be on the Chaldeans. 
    15: I, even I have spoken and called him: I have brought him, and his way is made prosperous.
    16: Come ye near unto me, and hear this: I have not spoken in secret from the beginning: from the time before it was done, I was there, and now the Lord God hath sent me, and his spirit. 
    17: Thus saith the Lord thy redeemer, the Holy One of Israel: I am the Lord thy God that teach thee profitable things, that govern thee in the way that thou walkest. 
    18: O that thou hadst hearkened to my commandments: thy peace had been as a river, and thy justice as the waves of the sea, 
    19: And thy seed had been as the sand, and the offspring of thy bowels like the gravel thereof: his name should not have perished, nor have been destroyed from before my face. 
    20: Come forth out of Babylon, flee ye from the Chaldeans, declare it with the voice of joy: make this to be heard, and speak it out even to the ends of the earth. Say: The Lord hath redeemed his servant Jacob.
    21: They thirsted not in the desert, when he led them out: he brought forth water out of the rock for them, and he clove the rock, and the waters gushed out. 
    22: There is no peace to the wicked, saith the Lord.

End of day 224.