Day 182:

Reading Proverbs, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: The parables of Solomon, the son of David, king of Israel. 
    2: To know wisdom, and instruction: 
    3: To understand the words of prudence: and to receive the instruction of doctrine, justice, and judgment, and equity: 
    4: To give subtilty to little ones, to the young man knowledge and understanding. 
    5: A wise man shall hear and shall be wiser: and he that understandeth, shall possess governments.
    6: He shall understand a parable, and the interpretation, the words of the wise, and their mysterious sayings. 
    7: The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. Fools despise wisdom and instruction. 
    8: My son, hear the instruction of thy father, and forsake not the law of thy mother: 
    9: That grace may be added to thy head, and a chain of gold to thy neck. 
    10: My son, if sinners shall entice thee, consent not to them.
    11: If they shall say: Come with us, let us lie in wait for blood, let us hide snares for the innocent without cause: 
    12: Let us swallow him up alive like hell, and whole as one that goeth down into the pit. 
    13: We shall find all precious substance, we shall fill our houses with spoils. 
    14: Cast in thy lot with us, let us all have one purse. 
    15: My son, walk not thou with them, restrain thy foot from their paths.
    16: For their feet run to evil, and make haste to shed blood. 
    17: But a net is spread in vain before the eyes of them that have wings. 
    18: And they themselves lie in wait for their own blood, and practise deceits against their own souls. 
    19: So the wage of every covetous man destroy the souls of the possessors. 
    20: Wisdom preacheth abroad, she uttereth her voice in the streets:
    21: At the head of multitudes she crieth out, in the entrance of the gates of the city she uttereth her words, saying: 
    22: O children, how long will you love childishness, and fools covet those things which are hurtful to themselves, and the unwise hate knowledge? 
    23: Turn ye at my reproof: behold I will utter my spirit to you, and will shew you my words. 
    24: Because I called, and you refused: I stretched out my hand, and there was none that regarded. 
    25: You have despised all my counsel, and have neglected my reprehensions.
    26: I also will laugh in your destruction, and will mock when that shall come to you which you feared. 
    27: When sudden calamity shall fall on you, and destruction, as a tempest, shall be at hand: when tribulation and distress shall come upon you: 
    28: Then shall they call upon me, and I will not hear: they shall rise in the morning and shall not find me: 
    29: Because they have hated instruction and received not the fear of the Lord, 
    30: Nor consented to my counsel, but despised all my reproof.
    31: Therefore they shall eat the fruit of their own way, and shall be filled with their own devices. 
    32: The turning away of little ones shall kill them, and the prosperity of fools shall destroy them. 
    33: But he that shall hear me, shall rest without terror, and shall enjoy abundance, without fear of evils.

  Chapter 2.

    1: My son, if thou wilt receive my words, and wilt hide my commandments with thee, 
    2: That thy ear may hearken to wisdom: Incline thy heart to know prudence: 
    3: For if thou shalt call for wisdom, and incline thy heart to prudence: 
    4: If thou shalt seek her as money, and shalt dig for her as for a treasure: 
    5: Then shalt thou understand the fear of the Lord, and shalt find the knowledge of God.
    6: Because the Lord giveth wisdom: and out of his mouth cometh prudence and knowledge. 
    7: He will keep the salvation of the righteous, and protect them that walk in simplicity. 
    8: Keeping the paths of justice, and guarding the ways of saints. 
    9: Then shalt thou understand justice, and judgment, and equity, and every good path. 
    10: If wisdom shall enter into thy heart, and knowledge please thy soul:
    11: Counsel shall keep thee, and prudence shall preserve thee, 
    12: That thou mayst be delivered from the evil way, and from the man that speaketh perverse things: 
    13: Who leave the right way, and walk by dark ways: 
    14: Who are glad when they have done evil, and rejoice in most wicked things: 
    15: Whose ways are perverse, and their steps infamous.
    16: That thou mayst be delivered from the strange women, and from the stranger, who softeneth her words: 
    17: And forsaketh the guide of her youth, 
    18: And hath forgotten the covenant of her God: for her house inclineth unto death, and her paths to hell. 
    19: None that go in unto her shall return again, neither shall they take hold of the paths of life, 
    20: That thou mayst walk in a good way: and mayst keep the paths of the just.
    21: For they that are upright shall dwell in the earth, and the simple shall continue in it. 
    22: But the wicked shall be destroyed from the earth: and they that do unjustly shall be taken away from it.

  Chapter 3.

    1: My son, forget not my law, and let thy heart keep my commandments. 
    2: For they shall add to thee length of days, and years of life and peace. 
    3: Let not mercy and truth leave thee, put them about thy neck, and write them in the tables of thy heart: 
    4: And thou shalt find grace and good understanding before God and men. 
    5: Have confidence in the Lord with all thy heart, and lean not upon thy own prudence.
    6: In all thy ways think on him, and he will direct thy steps. 
    7: Be not wise in thy own conceit: fear God, and depart from evil: 
    8: For it shall be health to thy navel, and moistening to thy bones. 
    9: Honour the Lord with thy substance, and give him of the first of all thy fruits: 
    10: And thy barns shall be filled with abundance, and thy presses shall run over with wine.
    11: My son, reject not the correction of the Lord: and do not faint when thou art chastised by him: 
    12: For whom the Lord loveth, he chastiseth: and as a father in the son he pleaseth himself. 
    13: Blessed is the man that findeth wisdom and is rich in prudence: 
    14: The purchasing thereof is better than the merchandise of silver, and her fruit than the chiefest and purest gold: 
    15: She is more precious than all riches: and all the things that are desired, are not to be compared with her.
    16: Length of days is in her right hand, and in her left hand riches and glory. 
    17: Her ways are beautiful ways, and all her paths are peaceable. 
    18: She is a tree of life to them that lay hold on her: and he that shall retain her is blessed. 
    19: The Lord by wisdom hath founded the earth, hath established the heavens by prudence. 
    20: By his wisdom the depths have broken out, and the clouds grow thick with dew.
    21: My son, let not these things depart from thy eyes: keep the law and counsel: 
    22: And there shall be life to thy soul, and grace to thy mouth. 
    23: Then shalt thou walk confidently in thy way, and thy foot shall not stumble: 
    24: If thou sleep, thou shalt not fear: thou shalt rest, and thy sleep shall be sweet. 
    25: Be not afraid of sudden fear, nor of the power of the wicked falling upon thee.
    26: For the Lord will be at thy side, and will keep thy foot that thou be not taken. 
    27: Do not withhold him from doing good, who is able: if thou art able, do good thyself also. 
    28: Say not to thy friend: Go, and come again: and tomorrow I will give to thee: when thou canst give at present. 
    29: Practise not evil against thy friend, when he hath confidence in thee. 
    30: Strive not against a man without cause, when he hath done thee no evil.
    31: Envy not the unjust man, and do not follow his ways: 
    32: For every mocker is an abomination to the Lord, and his communication is with the simple. 
    33: Want is from the Lord in the house of the wicked: but the habitations of the just shall be blessed. 
    34: He shall scorn the scorners, and to the meek he will give grace. 
    35: The wise shall possess glory: the promotion of fools is disgrace.

  Chapter 4.

    1: Hear, ye children, the instruction of a father, and attend that you may know prudence. 
    2: I will give you a good gift, forsake not my law. 
    3: For I also was my father's son, tender and as an only son in the sight of my mother: 
    4: And he taught me, and said: Let thy heart receive my words, keep my commandments, and thou shalt live. 
    5: Get wisdom, get prudence: forget not, neither decline from the words of my mouth.
    6: Forsake her not, and she shall keep thee: love her, and she shall preserve thee. 
    7: The beginning of wisdom, get wisdom, and with all thy possession purchase prudence. 
    8: Take hold on her, and she shall exalt thee: thou shalt be glorified by her, when thou shalt embrace her. 
    9: She shall give to thy head increase of graces, and protect thee with a noble crown. 
    10: Hear, O my son, and receive my words, that years of life may be multiplied to thee.
    11: I will shew thee the way of wisdom, I will lead thee by the paths of equity: 
    12: Which when thou shalt have entered, thy steps shall not be straitened, and when thou runnest thou shalt not meet a stumblingblock. 
    13: Take hold on instruction, leave it not: keep it, because it is thy life. 
    14: Be not delighted in the paths of the wicked, neither let the way of evil men please thee. 
    15: Flee from it, pass not by it: go aside, and forsake it.
    16: For they sleep not except they have done evil: and their sleep is taken away unless they have made some to fall. 
    17: They eat the bread of wickedness, and drink the wine of iniquity. 
    18: But the path of the just, as a shining light, goeth forwards and increaseth even to perfect day. 
    19: The way of the wicked is darksome: they know not where they fall. 
    20: My son, hearken to my words, and incline thy ear to my sayings.
    21: Let them not depart from thy eyes, keep them in the midst of thy heart: 
    22: For they are life to those that find them, and health to all flesh. 
    23: With all watchfulness keep thy heart, because life issueth out from it. 
    24: Remove from thee a froward mouth, and let detracting lips be far from thee. 
    25: Let thy eyes look straight on, and let thy eyelids go before thy steps.
    26: Make straight the path for thy feet, and all thy ways shall be established. 
    27: Decline not to the right hand, nor to the left: turn away thy foot from evil. For the Lord knoweth the ways that are on the right hand: but those are perverse which are on the left hand. But he will make thy courses straight, he will bring forward thy ways in peace.

End of day 182.