Day 176:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['129', '130', '131', '132']:

  Chapter 129.

    1: Out of the depths I have cried to thee, O Lord: 
    2: Lord, hear my voice. Let thy ears be attentive to the voice of my supplication. 
    3: If thou, O Lord, wilt mark iniquities: Lord, who shall stand it. 
    4: For with thee there is merciful forgiveness: and by reason of thy law, I have waited for thee, O Lord. My soul hath relied on his word: 
    5: My soul hath hoped in the Lord.
    6: From the morning watch even until night, let Israel hope in the Lord. 
    7: Because with the Lord there is mercy: and with him plentiful redemption. 
    8: And he shall redeem Israel from all his iniquities.

  Chapter 130.

    1: Lord, my heart is not exalted: nor are my eyes lofty. Neither have I walked in great matters, nor in wonderful things above me. 
    2: If I was not humbly minded, but exalted my soul: As a child that is weaned is towards his mother, so reward in my soul. 
    3: Let Israel hope in the Lord, from henceforth now and for ever.

  Chapter 131.

    1: O Lord, remember David, and all his meekness. 
    2: How he swore to the Lord, he vowed a vow to the God of Jacob: 
    3: If I shall enter into the tabernacle of my house: if I shall go up into the bed wherein I lie: 
    4: If I shall give sleep to my eyes, or slumber to my eyelids, 
    5: Or rest to my temples: until I find out a place for the Lord, a tabernacle for the God of Jacob.
    6: Behold we have heard of it in Ephrata: we have found it in the fields of the wood. 
    7: We will go into his tabernacle: We will adore in the place where his feet stood. 
    8: Arise, O Lord, into thy resting place: thou and the ark, which thou hast sanctified. 
    9: Let thy priests be clothed with justice: and let thy saints rejoice. 
    10: For thy servant David's sake, turn not away the face of thy anointed.
    11: The Lord hath sworn truth to David, and he will not make it void: of the fruit of thy womb I will set upon thy throne. 
    12: If thy children will keep thy covenant, and these my testimonies which I shall teach them: Their children also for evermore shall sit upon thy throne. 
    13: For the Lord hath chosen Sion: he hath chosen it for his dwelling. 
    14: This is my rest for ever and ever: here will I dwell, for I have chosen it. 
    15: Blessing, I will bless her widow: I will satisfy her poor with bread.
    16: I will clothe her priests with salvation: and her saints shall rejoice with exceeding great joy. 
    17: There will I bring forth a horn to David: I have prepared a lamp for my anointed. 
    18: His enemies I will clothe with confusion: but upon him will my sanctification flourish.

  Chapter 132.

    1: Behold how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell in unity. 
    2: Like the precious ointment on the head, that ran down upon the beard, the beard of Aaron, Which ran down to the skirt of his garment: 
    3: As the dew of Hermon, which descendeth upon mount Sion. For there the Lord hath commandeth blessing, and life for evermore.

End of day 176.