Day 207:

Reading Sirach, chapters ['29', '30', '31', '32']:

  Chapter 29.

    1: He that sheweth mercy, lendeth to his neighbour: and he that is stronger in hand, keepeth the commandments. 
    2: Lend to thy neighbour in the time of his need, and pay thou thy neighbour again in due time. 
    3: Reap thy word, and deal faithfully with him: and thou shalt always find that which is necessary for thee. 
    4: Many have looked upon a thing lent as a thing found, and have given trouble to them that helped them. 
    5: Till they receive, they kiss the hands of the lender, and in promises they humble their voice:
    6: But when they should repay, they will ask time, and will return tedious and murmuring words, and will complain of the time: 
    7: And if he be able to pay, he will stand off, he will scarce pay one half, and will count it as if he had found it: 
    8: But if not, he will defraud him of his money, and he shall get him for an enemy without cause: 
    9: And he will pay him with reproaches and curses, and instead of honour and good turn will repay him injuries. 
    10: Many have refused to lend, not out of wickedness, but they were afraid to be defrauded without cause.
    11: But yet towards the poor be thou more hearty, and delay not to shew him mercy. 
    12: Help the poor because of the commandment: and send him not away empty handed because of his poverty. 
    13: Lose thy money for thy brother and thy friend: and hide it not under a stone to be lost. 
    14: Place thy treasure in the commandments of the most High, and it shall bring thee more profit than gold. 
    15: Shut up alms in the heart of the poor, and it shall obtain help for thee against all evil.
    16: Better than the shield of the mighty, and better than the spear: 
    17: It shall fight for thee against thy enemy. 
    18: A good man is surety for his neighbour: and he that hath lost shame, will leave him to himself. 
    19: Forget not the kindness of thy surety: for he hath given his life for thee. 
    20: The sinner and the unclean fleeth from his surety.
    21: A sinner attributeth to himself the goods of his surety: and he that is of an unthankful mind will leave him that delivered him. 
    22: A man is surety for his neighbour: and when he hath lost all shame, he shall forsake him. 
    23: Evil suretyship hath undone many of good estate, and hath tossed them as a wave of the sea. 
    24: It hath made powerful men to go from place to place round about, and they have wandered in strange countries. 
    25: A sinner that transgresseth the commandment of the Lord, shall fall into an evil suretyship: and he that undertaketh many things, shall fall into judgment.
    26: Recover thy neighbour according to thy power, and take heed to thyself that thou fall not. 
    27: The chief thing for man's life is water and bread, and clothing, and a house to cover shame. 
    28: Better is the poor man's fare under a roof of boards, than sumptuous cheer abroad in another man's house. 
    29: Be contented with little instead of much, and thou shalt not hear the reproach of going abroad. 
    30: It is a miserable life to go as a guest from house to house: for where a man is a stranger, he shall not deal confidently, nor open his mouth.
    31: He shall entertain and feed, and give drink to the unthankful, and moreover he shall hear bitter words. 
    32: Go, stranger, and furnish the table, and give others to eat what thou hast in thy hand. 
    33: Give place to the honourable presence of my friends: for I want my house, my brother being to be lodged with me. 
    34: These things are grievous to a man of understanding: the upbraiding of houseroom, and the reproaching of the lender.

  Chapter 30.

    1: He that loveth his son, frequently chastiseth him, that he may rejoice in his latter end, and not grope after the doors of his neighbours. 
    2: He that instructeth his son shall be praised in him, and shall glory in him in the midst of them of his household. 
    3: He that teacheth his son, maketh his enemy jealous, and in the midst of his friends he shall glory in him. 
    4: His father is dead, and he is as if he were not dead: for he hath left one behind him that is like himself. 
    5: While he lived he saw and rejoiced in him: and when he died he was not sorrowful, neither was he confounded before his enemies.
    6: For he left behind him a defender of his house against his enemies, and one that will requite kindness to his friends. 
    7: For the souls of his sons he shall bind up his wounds, and at every cry his bowels shall be troubled. 
    8: A horse not broken becometh stubborn, and a child left to himself will become headstrong. 
    9: Give thy son his way, and he shall make thee afraid: play with him, and he shall make thee sorrowful. 
    10: Laugh not with him, lest thou have sorrow, and at the last thy teeth be set on edge.
    11: Give him not liberty in his youth, and wink not at his devices. 
    12: Bow down his neck while he is young, and beat his sides while he is a child, lest he grow stubborn, and regard thee not, and so be a sorrow of heart to thee. 
    13: Instruct thy son, and labour about him, lest his lewd behaviour be an offence to thee. 
    14: Better is a poor man who is sound, and strong of constitution, than a rich man who is weak and afflicted with evils. 
    15: Health of the soul in holiness of justice, is better then all gold and silver: and a sound body, than immense revenues.
    16: There is no riches above the riches of the health of the body: and there is no pleasure above the joy of the heart. 
    17: Better is death than a bitter life: and everlasting rest, than continual sickness. 
    18: Good things that are hidden in a mouth that is shut, are as masses of meat set about a grave. 
    19: What good shall an offering do to an idol? for it can neither eat, nor smell: 
    20: So is he that is persecuted by the Lord, bearing the reward of his iniquity:
    21: He seeth with his eyes, and groaneth, as an eunuch embracing a virgin, and sighing. 
    22: Give not up thy soul to sadness, and afflict not thyself in thy own counsel. 
    23: The joyfulness of the heart, is the life of a man, and a never failing treasure of holiness: and the joy of a man is length of life. 
    24: Have pity on thy own soul, pleasing God, and contain thyself: gather up thy heart in his holiness: and drive away sadness far from thee. 
    25: For sadness hath killed many, and there is no profit in it.
    26: Envy and anger shorten a man's days, and pensiveness will bring old age before the time. 
    27: A Cheerful and good heart is always feasting: for his banquets are prepared with diligence.

  Chapter 31.

    1: Watching for riches consumeth the flesh, and the thought thereof driveth away sleep. 
    2: The thinking beforehand turneth away the understanding, and a grievous sickness maketh the soul sober. 
    3: The rich man hath laboured in gathering riches together, and when he resteth he shall be filled with his goods. 
    4: The poor man hath laboured in his low way of life, and in the end he is still poor. 
    5: He that loveth gold, shall not be justified: and he that followeth after corruption, shall be filled with it.
    6: Many have been brought to fall for gold, and the beauty thereof hath been their ruin. 
    7: Gold is a stumblingblock to them that sacrifice to it: woe to them that eagerly follow after it, and every fool shall perish by it. 
    8: Blessed is the rich man that is found without blemish: and that hath not gone after gold, nor put his trust in money nor in treasures. 
    9: Who is he, and we will praise him? for he hath done wonderful things in his life. 
    10: Who hath been tried thereby, and made perfect, he shall have glory everlasting. He that could have transgressed, and hath not transgressed: and could do evil things, and hath not done them:
    11: Therefore are his goods established in the Lord, and all the church of the saints shall declare his alms. 
    12: Art thou set at a great table? be not the first to open thy mouth upon it. 
    13: Say not: There are many things which are upon it. 
    14: Remember that a wicked eye is evil. 
    15: What is created more wicked than an eye? therefore shall it weep over all the face when it shall see.
    16: Stretch not out thy hand first, lest being disgraced with envy thou be put to confusion. 
    17: Be not hasty in a feast. 
    18: Judge of the disposition of thy neighbour by thyself. 
    19: Use as a frugal man the things that are set before thee: lest if thou eatest much, thou be hated. 
    20: Leave off first, for manners' sake: and exceed not, lest thou offend.
    21: And if thou sittest among many, reach not thy hand out first of all: and be not the first to ask for drink. 
    22: How sufficient is a little wine for a man well taught, and in sleeping thou shalt not be uneasy with it, and thou shalt feel no pain. 
    23: Watching, and choler, and gripes, are with an intemperate man: 
    24: Sound and wholesome sleep with a moderate man: he shall sleep till morning, and his soul shall be delighted with him. 
    25: And if thou hast been forced to eat much, arise, go out, and vomit: and it shall refresh thee, and thou shalt not bring sickness upon thy body.
    26: Hear me, my son, and despise me not: and in the end thou shalt find my words. 
    27: In all thy works be quick, and no infirmity shall come to thee. 
    28: The lips of many shall bless him that is liberal of his bread, and the testimony of his truth is faithful. 
    29: Against him that is niggardly of his bread, the city will murmur, and the testimony of his niggardliness is true. 
    30: Challenge not them that love wine: for wine hath destroyed very many.
    31: Fire trieth hard iron: so wine drunk to excess shall rebuke the hearts of the proud. 
    32: Wine taken with sobriety is equal life to men: if thou drink it moderately, thou shalt be sober. 
    33: What is his life, who is diminished with wine? 
    34: What taketh away life? death. 
    35: Wine was created from the beginning to make men joyful, and not to make them drunk.
    36: Wine drunken with moderation is the joy of the soul and the heart. 
    37: Sober drinking is health to soul and body. 
    38: Wine drunken with excess raiseth quarrels; and wrath, and many ruins. 
    39: Wine drunken with excess is bitterness of the soul. 
    40: The heat of drunkenness is the stumblingblock of the fool, lessening strength and causing wounds.
    41: Rebuke not thy neighbour in a banquet of wine: and despise him not in his mirth. 
    42: Speak not to him words of reproach: and press him not in demanding again.

  Chapter 32.

    1: Have they made thee ruler? be not lifted up: be among them as one of them. 
    2: Have care of them, and so sit down, and when thou hast acquitted thyself of all thy charge, take thy place: 
    3: That thou mayst rejoice for them, and receive a crown as an ornament of grace, and get the honour of the contribution. 
    4: Speak, thou that art elder: for it becometh thee, 
    5: To speak the first word with care knowledge, and hinder not music.
    6: Where there is no hearing, pour not out words, and be not lifted up out season with thy wisdom. 
    7: A concert of music in a banquet wine is as a carbuncle set in gold. 
    8: As a signet of an emerald in a work of gold: so is the melody of music with pleasant and moderate wine. 
    9: Hear in silence, and for thy reverence good grace shall come to thee. 
    10: Young man, scarcely speak in thy own cause.
    11: If thou be asked twice, let thy answer be short. 
    12: In many things be as if thou wert ignorant, and hear in silence and withal seeking. 
    13: In the company of great men bake not upon thee: and when the ancients are present, speak not much. 
    14: Before a storm goeth lightning: and before shamefacedness goeth favour: and for thy reverence good grace shall come to thee. 
    15: And at the time of rising be not slack: but be first to run home to thy house, and there withdraw thyself, and there take thy pastime.
    16: And do what thou hast a mind, but not in sin or proud speech. 
    17: And for all these things bless the Lord, that made thee, and that replenisheth thee with all his good things. 
    18: He that feareth the Lord, will receive his discipline: and they that will seek him early, shall find a blessing. 
    19: He that seeketh the law, shall be filled with it: and he that dealeth deceitfully, shall meet with a stumblingblock therein. 
    20: They that fear the Lord, shall find just judgment, and shall kindle justice as a light.
    21: A sinful man will flee reproof, and will find an excuse according to his will. 
    22: A man of counsel will not neglect understanding, a strange and proud man will not dread fear: 
    23: Even after he hath done with fear without counsel, he shall be controlled by the things of his own seeking. 
    24: My son, do thou nothing without counsel, and thou shalt not repent when thou hast done. 
    25: Go not in the way of ruin, and thou shalt not stumble against the stones; trust not thyself to a rugged way, lest thou set a stumblingblock to thy soul.
    26: And beware of thy own children, and take heed of them of thy household. 
    27: In every work of thine regard thy soul in faith: for this is the keeping of the commandments. 
    28: He that believeth God, taketh heed to the commandments: and he that trusteth in him, shall fare never the worse.

End of day 207.