Day 89:

Reading 1-Chronicles, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: Adam, Seth, Enos, 
    2: Cainan, Malaleel, Jared, 
    3: Henoc, Mathusale, Lamech, 
    4: Noe, Sem, Cham, and Japheth. 
    5: The sons of Japheth: Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, Thubal, Mosoch, Thiras.
    6: And the sons of Gomer: Ascenez, and Riphath, and Thogorma. 
    7: And the sons of Javan: Elisa and Tharsis, Cethim and Dodanim. 
    8: The sons of Cham: Chus, and Mesrai, and Phut, and Chaanan. 
    9: And the sons of Chus: Saba, and Hevila, Sabatha, and Regma, and Sabathaca. And the sons of Regma: Saba, and Dadan. 
    10: Now Chus begot Nemrod: he began to be mighty upon earth.
    11: But Mesraim begot Ludim, and Anamim, and Laabim, and Nephtuim, 
    12: Phetrusim also, and Casluim: from whom came the Philistines, and Caphtorim. 
    13: And Chanaan beget Sidon his firstborn, and the Hethite, 
    14: And the Jebusite, and the Amorrhite, and the Gergesite, 
    15: And the Hevite, and the Aracite, and the Sinite,
    16: And the Aradian, and the Samarite, and the Hamathite. 
    17: The sons of Sem: Elam and Asur, and Arphaxad, and Lud, and Aram, and Hus, and Hul, and Gether, and Mosoch. 
    18: And Arphaxad beget Sale, and Sale beget Heber. 
    19: And to Heber were born two sons, the name of the one was Phaleg, because In his days the earth was divided; and the name of his brother was Jectan. 
    20: And Jectan beget Elmodad, and Saleph, and Asarmoth, and Jare,
    21: And Adoram, and Usal, and Decla, 
    22: And Hebal, and Abimael, and Saba, 
    23: And Ophir, and Hevila, and Jobab. All these are the sons of Jectan. 
    24: Sem, Arphaxad, Sale, 
    25: Heber, Phaleg, Ragau,
    26: Serug, Nachor, Thare, 
    27: Abram, this is Abraham. 
    28: And the sons of Abraham, Isaac and Ismahel. 
    29: And these are the generations of them. The firstborn of Ismahel, Nabajoth, then Cedar, and Adbeel, and Mabsam, 
    30: And Masma, and Duma, Massa, Hadad, and Thema,
    31: Jetur, Naphis, Cedma: these are the sons of Ismahel. 
    32: And the sons of Cetura, Abraham's concubine, whom she bore: Zamran, Jecsan, Madan, Madian, Jesboc, and Sue. And the sons of Jecsan, Saba, and Dadan. And the sons of Dadan: Assurim, and Latussim, and Laomin. 
    33: And the sons of Madian: Epha, and Epher, and Henoch, and Abida, and Eldaa. All these are the sons of Cetura. 
    34: And Abraham beget Isaac: and his sons were Esau and Israel. 
    35: The sons of Esau: Eliphaz, Rahuel, Jehus, Ihelom, and Core.
    36: The sons of Eliphaz: Theman, Omar, Sephi, Gathan, Cenez, and by Thamna, Amalec. 
    37: The sons of Rahuel: Nahath, Zara, Samma, Meza. 
    38: The sons of Seir: Lotan. Sobal, Sebeen, Ana, Dison, Eser, Disan. 
    39: The sons of Lotan: Hori, Homam. And the sister of Lotan was Thamna. 
    40: The sons of Sobal: Alian, and Manahath, and Ebal, Sephi and Onam. The sons of Sebeon: Aia, and Ana. The son of Ana: Dison.
    41: The sons of Dison: Hamram, and Eseban, and Jethran, and Charan. 
    42: The sons of Eser: Balaan, and Zavan, and Jacan. The sons of Disan: Hus and Aran. 
    43: Now these are the kings that reigned in the land of Edom, before there was a king over the children of Israel: Bale the son of Beer: and the name of his city was Denaba. 
    44: And Bale died, and Jobab the son of Zare of Bosra, reigned in his stead. 
    45: And when Jobab also was dead, Husam of the land of the Themanites reigned in his stead.
    46: And Husam also died, and Adad the son of Badad reigned in his stead, and he defeated the Madianites in the land of Moab: and the name of his city was Avith. 
    47: And when Adad also was dead, Semla of Masreca reigned in his stead. 
    48: Semla also died, and Saul of Rohoboth, which is near the river, reigned in his stead. 
    49: And when Saul was dead, Balanan the son of Achobor reigned in his stead. 
    50: He also died, and Adad reigned in his stead: and the name of his city was Phau, and his wife was called Meetabel the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezaab.
    51: And after the death of Adad, there began to be dukes in Edom instead of kings: duke Thamna, duke Alva, duke Jetheth, 
    52: Duke Oolibama, duke Ela, duke Phinon, 
    53: Duke Cenez, duke Theman, duke Mabsar, 
    54: Duke Magdiel, duke Hiram. These are the dukes of Edom.

  Chapter 2.

    1: And these are the sons of Israel: Ruben, Simeon, Levi, Juda, Issachar, and Zabulon, 
    2: Dan, Joseph, Benjamin, Nephtali, Gad, and Aser. 
    3: The sons of Juda: Her, Onan and Sela. These three were born to him of the Chanaanitess the daughter of Sue. And Her the firstborn of Juda, was wicked in the sight of the Lord, and he slew him. 
    4: And Thamar his daughter in law bore him Phares and Zara. So all the sons of Juda were five. 
    5: And the sons of Phares, were Hesron and Hamul.
    6: And the sons also of Zare: Zamri, and Ethan, and Eman, and Chalchal, and Dara, five in all. 
    7: And the sons of a Charmi: Achar, who troubled Israel, and sinned by the theft of the anathema. 
    8: The sons of Ethan: Azarias, 
    9: And the sons of Hesron that were born to him: Jerameel, and Ram, and Calubi. 
    10: And Ram beget Aminadab, and Aminadab beget Nahasson, prince of the children of Juda.
    11: And Nahasson beget Salma, the father of Boot. 
    12: And Boot beget Obed, and Obed beget Isai. 
    13: And Isai beget Eliab his firstborn, the second Abinadab, the third Simmaa, 
    14: The fourth, Nathanael, the fifth Raddai, 
    15: The sixth Asom, the seventh David.
    16: And their sisters were Sarvia, and Abigail. The sons of Sarvia: Abisai, Joab, and Asael, three. 
    17: And Abigail bore Amasa, whose father was Jether the Ismahelite. 
    18: And Caleb the son of Hesron took a wife named Azuba, of whom he had Jerioth: and her sons were Jaser, and Sobab, and Ardon. 
    19: And when Azuba was dead, Caleb took to wife Ephrata: who bore him Hur. 
    20: And Hur beget Uri: and Uri beget Bezeleel.
    21: And afterwards Hesron went in to the daughter of Machir the father of Galaad, and took her to wife when he was threescore years old: and she bore him Segub. 
    22: And Segub beget Jair, and he had three and twenty cities in the land of Galaad. 
    23: And he took Gessur, and Aram the towns of Jair, and Canath, and the villages thereof, threescore cities. All these, the sons of Machir father of Galaad. 
    24: And when Hesron was dead, Caleb went in to Ephrata. Hesron also had to wife Abia who bore him Ashur the father of Thecua. 
    25: And the sons of Jerameel the firstborn of Hesron, were Ram his firstborn, and Buna, and Aram, and Asom, and Achia.
    26: And Jerameel married another wife, named Atara, who was the mother of Onam. 
    27: And the sons of Ram the firstborn of Jerameel, were Moos, Jamin, and Achar. 
    28: And Onam had sons Semei, and Jada. And the sons of Semei: Nadab, and Abisur. 
    29: And the name of Abisur's wife was Abihail, who bore him Ahobban, and Molid. 
    30: And the sons of Nadab were Saled, and Apphaim. And Saled died without children.
    31: But the son of Apphaim was Jesi: and Jesi beget Sesan. And Sesan beget Oholai. 
    32: And the sons of Jada the brother of Semei: Jether and Jonathan. And Jether also died without children. 
    33: But Jonathan beget Phaleth, and Ziza, These were the sons of Jerameel. 
    34: And Sesan had no sons, but daughters and a servant an Egyptian, named Jeraa. 
    35: And he gave him his daughter to wife: and she bore him Ethei.
    36: And Ethei begot Nathan, and Nathan beget Zabad. 
    37: And Zabad beget Ophlal, and Ophlal beget Obed. 
    38: Obed beget Jehu, Jehu beget Azarias. 
    39: Azarias beget Helles, and Helles begot Elasa. 
    40: Elasa beget Sisamoi, Sisamoi beget Sellum,
    41: Sellum beget Icamia, and Icamia begot Elisama. 
    42: Now the sons of Caleb the brother of Jerameel were Mesa his firstborn, who was the father of Siph: and the sons of Maresa father of Hebron. 
    43: And the sons of Hebron, Core, and Thaphua, and Recem, and Samma. 
    44: And Samma beget Raham, the father of Jercaam, and Recem beget Sammai. 
    45: The son of Sammai, Maon: and Maon the father of Bethsur.
    46: And Epha the concubine of Caleb bore Haran, and Mesa, and Gezez. And Haran beget Gezez. 
    47: And the sons of Jahaddai, Rogom, and Joathan, and Gesan, and Phalet, and Epha, and Saaph. 
    48: And Maacha the concubine of Caleb bore Saber, and Tharana. 
    49: And Saaph the father of Madmena beget Sue the father of Machbena, and the father of Gabaa. And the daughter of Caleb was Achsa. 
    50: These were the sons of Caleb, the son of Hur the firstborn of Ephrata, Sobal the father of Cariathiarim.
    51: Salma the father of Bethlehem, Hariph the father of Bethgader. 
    52: And Sobal the father of Cariathiarim had sons: he that saw half of the places of rest. 
    53: And of the kindred of Cariathiarim, the Jethrites, and Aphuthites, and Semathites, and Maserites. Of them came the Saraites, and Esthaolites. 
    54: The sons of Salma, Bethlehem, and Netophathi, the crowns of the house of Joab, and half of the place of rest of Sarai. 
    55: And the families of the scribes that dwell in Jabes, singing and making melody, and abiding in tents. These are the Cinites, who came of Calor (Chamath) father of the house of Rechab,

  Chapter 3.

    1: Now these were the sons of David that were born to him in Hebron: the firstborn Amnon of Achinoam the Jezrahelitess, the second Daniel of Abigail the Carmelitess. 
    2: The third Absalom the son of Maacha the daughter of Tolmai king of Gessur, the fourth Adonias the son of Aggith, 
    3: The fifth Saphatias of Abital, the sixth Jethrahem of Egla, his wife. 
    4: So six sons were born to him in Hebron, where he reigned seven years and six months. And in Jerusalem he reigned three and thirty years. 
    5: And these sons were born to him in Jerusalem: Simmaa, and Sobab, and Nathan, and Solomon, four of Bethsabee the daughter of Ammiel.
    6: Jebaar also and Elisama, 
    7: And Eliphaleeh, and Noge, and Nepheg, and Japhia, 
    8: And Elisama, and Eliada, and Elipheleth, nine: 
    9: All these the sons of David, beside the sons of the concubines: and they had a sister Thamar. 
    10: And Solomon's son was Roboam: whose son Abia beget Asa. And his son was Josaphat,
    11: The father of Joram: and Joram begot Ochozias, of whom was born Joas: 
    12: And his son Amasias begot Azarias. And Joathan the son of Azarias 
    13: Beget Achaz, the father of Ezechias, of whom was born Manasses. 
    14: And Manasses beget Amen the father of Josias. 
    15: And the sons of Josias were, the firstborn Johanan, the second Joakim, the third Sedecias, the fourth Sellum.
    16: Of Joakim was born Jechonias, and Sedecias. 
    17: The sons of Jechonias were Asir, Salathiel, 
    18: Melchiram, Phadaia, Senneser and Jecemia, Sama, and Nadabia. 
    19: Of Phadaia were born Zorobabel and Semei. Zorobabel beget Mosollam, Hananias, and Salomith their sister: 
    20: Hasaba also, and Ohol, and Barachias, and Hasadias, Josabhesed, five.
    21: And the son of Hananias was Phaltias the father of Jeseias, whose son was Raphaia. And his son was Arnan, of whom was born Obdia, whose son was Sechenias. 
    22: The son of Sechenias, was Semeia, whose sons were Hattus, and Jegaal, and Baria, and Naaria, and Saphat, six in number. 
    23: The sons of Naaria, Elioenai, and Ezechias, and Ezricam, three. 
    24: The sons of Elioenai, Oduia, and Eliasub, and Pheleia, and Accub, and Johanan, and Dalaia, and Anani, seven.

  Chapter 4.

    1: The sons of Juda: Phares, Hesron, and Charmi, and Hur, and Sobal. 
    2: And Raia the son of Sobal beget Jahath, of whom were born Ahumai, and Laad. These are the families of Sarathi. 
    3: And this is the posterity of Etam: Jezrahel, and Jesema, and Jedebos: and the name of their sister was Asalelphuni. 
    4: And Phanuel the father of Gedor, and Ezar the father of Hosa, these are the sons of Hur the firstborn of Ephratha the father of Bethlehem. 
    5: And Assur the father of Thecua had two wives, Halaa and Naara:
    6: And Naara bore him Ozam, and Hepher, and Themani, and Ahasthari: these are the sons of Naara. 
    7: And the sons of Halaa, Sereth, Isaar, and Ethnan. 
    8: And Cos begot Anob, and Soboba, the kindred of Aharehel the son of Arum. 
    9: And Jabes was more honourable than any of his brethren, and his mother called his name Jabes, saying: Because I bore him with sorrow. 
    10: And Jabes called upon the God of Israel, saying: If blessing thou wilt bless me, and wilt enlarge my borders, and thy hand be with me, and thou save me from being oppressed by evil. And God granted him the things he prayed for.
    11: And Caleb the brother of Sua beget Mahir, who was the father of Esthon. 
    12: And Esthon beget Bethrapha, and Phesse, and Tehinna father of the city of Naas: these are the men of Recha. 
    13: And the sons of Cenez were Othoniel, and Saraia. And the sons of Othoniel, Hathath, and Maonathi. 
    14: Maonathi beget Ophra, and Saraia begot Joab the father of the Valley of artificers: for artificers were there. 
    15: And the sons of Caleb the son of Jephone, were Hir, and Ela, and Naham. And the sons of Ela: Cenez.
    16: The sons also of Jaleleel: Ziph, and Zipha, Thiria, and Asrael. 
    17: And the sons of Esra, Jether, and Mered, and Epher, and Jalon, and he beget Mariam, and Sammai, and Jesba the father of Esthamo. 
    18: And his wife Judaia, bore Jared the father of Gedor, and Heber the father of Socho, and Icuthiel the father of Zanoe. And these are the sons of Bethia the daughter of Pharao, whom Mered took to wife. 
    19: And the sons of his wife Odaia the sister of Naham the father of Celia, Garmi, and Esthamo, who was of Machathi. 
    20: The sons also of Simon, Amnon, and Rinna the son of Hanan, and Thilon. And the sons of Jesi Zoheth, and Benzoheth.
    21: The sons of Sela the son of Juda: Her the father of Lecha, and Laada the father of Maresa, and the families of the house of them that wrought fine linen in the House of oath. 
    22: And he that made the sun to stand, and the men of Lying, and Secure, and Burning, who were princes in Moab, and who returned into Lahem. Now these are things of old. 
    23: These are the potters, and they dwelt in Plantations, and Hedges, with the king for his works, and they abode there. 
    24: The sons of Simeon: Namuel, and Jamin, Jarib, Zara, Saul: 
    25: Sellum his son, Mapsam his son, Masma his son.
    26: The sons of Masma: Hamuel his son, Zachur his son, Semei his son. 
    27: The sons of Semei were sixteen, and six daughters: but his brethren had not many sons, and the whole kindred could not reach to the sum of the children of Juda. 
    28: And they dwelt in Bersabee, and Molada, and Hasarsuhal, 
    29: And in Bala, and in Asom, and in Tholad, 
    30: And in Bathuel, and in Horma, and in Siceleg,
    31: And in Bethmarchaboth, and in Hasarsusim, and in Bethberai, and in Saarim. These were their cities unto the reign of David. 
    32: Their towns also were Etam, and Aen, Remmon, and Thochen, and Asan, five cities. 
    33: And all their villages round about these cities as far as Baal. This was their habitation, and the distribution of their dwellings. 
    34: And Mosabab and Jemlech, and Josa, the son of Amasias, 
    35: And Joel, and Jehu the son of Josabia the son of Saraia, the son of Asiel,
    36: And Elioenai, and Jacoba, and Isuhaia, and Asaia, and Adiel, and Ismiel, and Banaia, 
    37: Ziza also the son of Sephei the son of Allon the son of Idaia the son of Semri the son of Samaia. 
    38: These were named princes in their kindreds, and in the houses of their families were multiplied exceedingly. 
    39: And they went forth to enter into Gador as far as to the east side of the valley, to seek pastures for their flocks. 
    40: And they found fat pastures, and very good, and a country spacious, and quiet, and fruitful, in which some of the race of Cham had dwelt before.
    41: And these whose names are written above, came in the days of Ezechias king of Juda: and they beat down their tents, and slew the inhabitants that were found there, and utterly destroyed them unto this day: and they dwelt in their place, because they found there fat pastures. 
    42: Some also of the children of Simeon, five hundred men, went into mount Seir, having for their captains Phaltias and Naaria and Raphaia and Oziel the sons of Jesi: 
    43: And they slew the remnant of the Amalecites, who had been able to escape, and they dwelt there in their stead unto this day.

End of day 89.