Day 131:

Reading 2-Maccabees, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: At that time Antiochus returned with dishonour out of Persia. 
    2: For he had entered into the city called Persepolis, and attempted to rob the temple, and to oppress the city: but the multitude running together to arms, put them to flight: and so it fell out that Antiochus being put to flight returned with disgrace. 
    3: Now when he was come about Ecbatana, he received the news of what had happened to Nicanor and Timotheus. 
    4: And swelling with anger he thought to revenge upon the Jews the injury done by them that had put him to flight. And therefore he commanded his chariot to be driven, without stopping in his journey, the judgment of heaven urging him forward, because he had spoken so proudly, that he would come to Jerusalem, and make it a common burying place of the Jews. 
    5: But the Lord the God of Israel, that seeth all things, struck him with an incurable and an invisible plague. For as soon as he had ended these words, a dreadful pain in his bowels came upon him, and bitter torments of the inner parts.
    6: And indeed very justly, seeing he had tormented the bowels of others with many and new torments, albeit he by no means ceased from his malice. 
    7: Moreover being filled with pride, breathing out fire in his rage against the Jews, and commanding the matter to be hastened, it happened as he was going with violence that he fell from the chariot, so that his limbs were much pained by a grievous bruising of the body. 
    8: Thus he that seemed to himself to command even the waves of the sea, being proud above the condition of man, and to weigh the heights of the mountains in a balance, now being cast down to the ground, was carried in a litter, bearing witness to the manifest power of God in himself: 
    9: So that worms swarmed out of the body of this man, and whilst he lived in sorrow and pain, his flesh fell off, and the filthiness of his smell was noisome to the army. 
    10: And the man that thought a little before he could reach to the stars of heaven, no man could endure to carry, for the intolerable stench.
    11: And by this means, being brought from his great pride, he began to come to the knowledge of himself, being admonished by the scourge of God, his pains increasing every moment. 
    12: And when he himself could not now abide his own stench, he spoke thus: It is just to be subject to God, and that a mortal man should not equal himself to God. 
    13: Then this wicked man prayed to the Lord, of whom he was not like to obtain mercy. 
    14: And the city to which he was going in haste to lay it even with the ground, and to make it a, common buryingplace, he now desireth to make free. 
    15: And the Jews whom he said he would not account worthy to be so much as buried, but would give them up to be devoured by the birds and wild beasts, and would utterly destroy them with their children, he now promiseth to make equal with the Athenians.
    16: The holy temple also which before he had spoiled, he promiseth to adorn with goodly gifts, and to multiply the holy vessels, and to allow out of his revenues the charges pertaining to the sacrifices. 
    17: Yea also, that he would become a Jew himself, and would go through every place of the earth, and declare the power of God. 
    18: But his pains not ceasing (for the just judgment of God was come upon him) despairing of life he wrote to the Jews in the manner of a supplication, a letter in these words: 
    19: To his very good subjects the Jews, Antiochus king and ruler wisheth much health and welfare, and happiness. 
    20: If you and your children are well, and if all matters go with you to your mind, we give very great thanks.
    21: As for me, being infirm, but yet kindly remembering you, returning out of the places of Persia, and being taken with a grievous disease, I thought it necessary to take care for the common good: 
    22: Not distrusting my life, but having great hope to escape the sickness. 
    23: But considering that my father also, at what time he led an army into the higher countries, appointed who should reign after him: 
    24: To the end that if any thing contrary to expectation should fall out, or any bad tidings should be brought, they that were in the countries, knowing to whom the whole government was left, might not be troubled. 
    25: Moreover, considering that neighbouring princes and borderers wait for opportunities, and expect what shall be the event, I have appointed my son Antiochus king, whom I often recommended to many of you, when I went into the higher provinces: and I have written to him what I have joined here below.
    26: I pray you therefore, and request of you, that remembering favours both public and private, you will every man of you continue to be faithful to me and to my son. 
    27: For I trust that he will behave with moderation and humanity, and following my intentions, will be gracious unto you. 
    28: Thus the murderer and blasphemer, being grievously struck, as himself had treated others, died a miserable death in a strange country among the mountains. 
    29: But Philip that was brought up with him, carried away his body: and out of fear of the son of Antiochus, went into Egypt to Ptolemee Philometor.

  Chapter 10.

    1: But Machabeus, and they that were with him, by the protection of the Lord, recovered the temple and the city again. 
    2: But he threw down the altars, which the heathens had set up in the streets, as also the temples of the idols. 
    3: And having purified the temple, they made another altar: and taking fire out of the fiery stones, they offered sacrifices after two years, and set forth incense, and lamps, and the loaves of proposition. 
    4: And when they had done these things, they besought the Lord, lying prostrate on the ground, that they might no more fall into such evils; but if they should at any time sin, that they might be chastised by him more gently, and not be delivered up to barbarians and blasphemous men. 
    5: Now upon the same day that the temple had been polluted by the strangers, on the very same day it was cleansed again, to wit, on the five and twentieth day of the month of Casleu.
    6: And they kept eight days with joy, after the manner of the feast of the tabernacles, remembering that not long before they had kept the feast of the tabernacles when they were in the mountains, and in dens like wild beasts. 
    7: Therefore they now, carried boughs, and green branches, and palms for Him that had given them good success in cleansing his place. 
    8: And they ordained by a common statute, and decree, that all the nation of the Jews should keep those days every year. 
    9: And this was the end of Antiochus that was called the Illustrious. 
    10: But now we will relate the acts of Eupator the son of that wicked Antiochus, abridging the account of the evils that happened in the wars.
    11: For when he was come to the crown, he appointed over the affairs of his realm one Lysias, general of the army of Phenicia and Syria. 
    12: For Ptolemee that was called Macer, was determined to be strictly just to the Jews, and especially by reason of the wrong that had been done them, and to deal peaceably with them. 
    13: But being accused for this to Eupator by his friends, and being oftentimes called traitor, because he had left Cyprus which Philometor had committed to him, and coming over to Antiochus the Illustrious, had revolted also from him, he put an end to his life by poison. 
    14: But Gorgias, who was governor of the holds, taking with him the strangers, often fought against the Jews. 
    15: And the Jews that occupied the most commodious hold, received those that were driven out of Jerusalem, and attempted to make war.
    16: Then they that were with Machabeus, beseeching the Lord by prayers to be their helper, made a strong attack upon the strong holds of the Idumeans: 
    17: And assaulting them with great force, won the holds, killed them that came in the way, and slew altogether no fewer than twenty thousand. 
    18: And whereas some were fled into very strong towers, having all manner of provision to sustain a siege, 
    19: Machabeus left Simon and Joseph, and Zacheus, and them that were with them in sufficient number to besiege them, and departed to those expeditions which urged more. 
    20: Now they that were with Simon, being led with covetousness, were persuaded for the sake of money by some that were in the towers: and taking seventy thousand didrachmas, let some of them escape.
    21: But when it was told Machabeus what was done, he assembled the rulers of the people, and accused those men that they had sold their brethren for money, having let their adversaries escape. 
    22: So he put these traitors to death, and forthwith took the two towers. 
    23: And having good success in arms and in all things he took in hand, he slew more than twenty thousand in the two holds. 
    24: But Timotheus who before had been overcome by the Jews, having called together a multitude of foreign troops, and assembled horsemen out of Asia, came as though he would take Judea by force of arms. 
    25: But Machabeus and they that were with him, when he drew near, prayed to the Lord, sprinkling earth upon their heads and girding their loins with haircloth,
    26: And lying prostrate at the foot of the altar, besought him to be merciful to them, and to be an enemy to their enemies, and an adversary to their adversaries, as the law saith. 
    27: And so after prayer taking their arms, they went forth further from the city, and when they were come very near the enemies they rested. 
    28: But as soon as the sun was risen both sides joined battle: the one part having with their valour the Lord for a surety of victory and success: but the other side making their rage their leader in battle. 
    29: But when they were in the heat of the engagement there appeared to the enemies from heaven five men upon horses, comely with golden bridles, conducting the Jews: 
    30: Two of whom took Machabeus between them, and covered him on every side with their arms, and kept him safe: but cast darts and fireballs against the enemy, so that they fell down, being both confounded with blindness, and filled with trouble.
    31: And there were slain twenty thousand five hundred, and six hundred horsemen. 
    32: But Timotheus fled into Gazara a strong hold, where Chereas was governor. 
    33: Then Machabeus, and they that were with him, cheerfully laid siege to the fortress four days. 
    34: But they that were within, trusting to the strength of the place, blasphemed exceedingly, and cast forth abominable words. 
    35: But when the fifth day appeared, twenty young men of them that were with Machabeus, inflamed in their minds because of the blasphemy, approached manfully to the wall, and pushing forward with fierce courage got up upon it.
    36: Moreover others also getting up after them, went to set fire to the towers and the gates, and to burn the blasphemers alive. 
    37: And having for two days together pillaged and sacked the fortress, they killed Timotheus, who was found hid in a certain place: they slew also his brother Chereas, and Apollophanes. 
    38: And when this was done, they blessed the Lord with hymns and thanksgiving, who had done great things in Israel, and given them the victory.

  Chapter 11.

    1: A short time after this Lysias the king's lieutenant, and cousin, and who had chief charge over all the affairs, being greatly displeased with what had happened, 
    2: Gathered together fourscore thousand men, and all the horsemen, and came against the Jews, thinking to take the city, and make it a habitation of the Gentiles: 
    3: And to make a gain of the temple, as of the other temples of the Gentiles, and to set the high priesthood to sale every year: 
    4: Never considering the power of God, but puffed up in mind, and trusting in the multitude of his foot soldiers, and the thousands of his horsemen, and his fourscore elephants. 
    5: So he came into Judea, and approaching to Bethsura, which was in a narrow place, the space of five furlongs from Jerusalem, he laid siege to that fortress.
    6: But when Machabeus and they that were with him, understood that the strong holds were besieged, they and all the people besought the Lord with lamentations and tears, that he would send a good angel to save Israel. 
    7: Then Machabeus himself, first taking his arms, exhorted the rest to expose themselves together with him, to the danger, and to succour their brethren. 
    8: And when they were going forth together with a willing mind, there appeared at Jerusalem a horseman going before them in white clothing, with golden armour, shaking a spear. 
    9: Then they all together blessed the merciful Lord, and took great courage, being ready to break through not only men, but also the fiercest beasts, and walls of iron. 
    10: So they went on courageously, having a helper from Heaven, and the who shewed mercy to them.
    11: And rushing violently upon the enemy, like lions, they slew of them eleven thousand footmen, and one thousand six hundred horsemen: 
    12: And put all the rest to flight: many of them being wounded, escaped naked: yea and Lysias himself fled away shamefully, and escaped. 
    13: And as he was a man of understanding considering with himself, the loss he had suffered, and perceiving that the Hebrews could not be overcome, because they relied upon the help of the Almighty God, he sent to them: 
    14: And promised that he would agree to all things that are just, and that he would persuade the king to be their friend. 
    15: Then Machabeus consented to the request of Lysias, providing for the common good in all things, and whatsoever Machabeus wrote to Lysias concerning the Jews, the king allowed of.
    16: For there were letters written to the Jews from Lysias, to this effect: Lysias to the people of the Jews, greeting. 
    17: John and Abesalom who were sent from you, delivering your writings, requested that I would accomplish those things which were signified by them. 
    18: Therefore whatsoever things could be reported to the king I have represented to him: and he hath granted as much as the matter permitted. 
    19: If therefore you will keep yourselves loyal in affairs, hereafter also I will endeavour to be a means of your good. 
    20: But as concerning other particulars, I have given orders by word both to these, and to them that are sent by me, to commune with you.
    21: Fare ye well. In the year one hundred and forty-eight, the four and twentieth day of the month of Dioscorus. 
    22: But the king's letter contained these words: King Antiochus to Lysias his brother, greeting. 
    23: Our father being translated amongst the gods, we are desirous that they that are in our realm should live quietly, and apply themselves diligently to their own concerns, 
    24: And we have heard that the Jews would not consent to my father to turn to the rites of the Greeks, but that they would keep to their own manner of living, and therefore that they request us to allow them to live after their own laws. 
    25: Wherefore being desirous that this nation also should be at rest, we have ordained and decreed, that the temple should be restored to them, and that they may live according to the custom of their ancestors.
    26: Thou shalt do well therefore to send to them, and grant them peace, that our pleasure being known, they may be of good comfort, and look to their own affairs. 
    27: But the king's letter to the Jews was in this manner: King Antiochus to the senate of the Jews, and to the rest of the Jews, greeting. 
    28: If you are well, you are as we desire, we ourselves also are well. 
    29: Menelaus came to us, saying that you desired to come down to your countrymen, that are with us. 
    30: We grant therefore a safe conduct to all that come and go, until the thirtieth day of the month of Xanthicus,
    31: That the Jews may use their own kind of meats, and their own laws as before, and that none of them any manner of ways be molested for things which have been done by ignorance. 
    32: And we have sent also Menelaus to speak to you. 
    33: Fare ye well. In the year one hundred and forty-eight, the fifteenth day of the month of Xanthicus. 
    34: The Romans also sent them a letter, to this effect. Quintus Memmius, and Titus Manilius, ambassadors of the Romans, to the people of the Jews, greeting. 
    35: Whatsoever Lysias the king's cousin hath granted you, we also have granted.
    36: But touching such things as he thought should be referred to the king, after you have diligently conferred among yourselves, send some one forthwith, that we may decree as it is convenient for you: for we are going to Antioch. 
    37: And therefore make haste to write back, that we may know of what mind you are. 
    38: Fare ye well. In the year one hundred and forty-eight, the fifteenth day of the month of Xanthicus.

  Chapter 12.

    1: When these covenants were made, Lysias went to the king, and the Jews gave themselves to husbandry. 
    2: But they that were behind, namely, Timotheus and Apollonius the son of Genneus, also Hieronymus, and Demophon, and besides them Nicanor the governor of Cyprus, would not suffer them to live in peace, and to be quiet. 
    3: The men of Joppe also were guilty of this kind of wickedness: they desired the Jews who dwelt among them to go with their wives and children into the boats, which they had prepared, as though they had no enmity to them. 
    4: Which when they had consented to, according to the common decree of the city, suspecting nothing, because of the peace: when they were gone forth into the deep, they drowned no fewer than two hundred of them. 
    5: But as soon as Judas heard of this cruelty done to his countrymen, he commanded the men that were with him: and after having called upon God the just judge,
    6: He came against those murderers of his brethren, and set the haven on fire in the night, burnt the boats, and slew with the sword them that escaped from the fire. 
    7: And when he had done these things in this manner, he departed as if he would return again, and root out all the Joppites. 
    8: But when he understood that the men of Jamnia also designed to do in like manner to the Jews that dwelt among them, 
    9: He came upon the Jamnites also by night, and set the haven on fire with the ships, so that the light of the fire was seen at Jerusalem two hundred and forty furlongs off. 
    10: And when they were now gone from thence nine furlongs, and were marching towards Timotheus, five thousand footmen and five hundred horsemen of the Arabians set upon them.
    11: And after a hard fight, in which by the help of God they got the victory, the rest of the Arabians being overcome, besought Judas for peace, promising to give him pastures, and to assist him in other things. 
    12: And Judas thinking that they might be profitable indeed in many things, promised them peace, and after having joined hands, they departed to their tents. 
    13: He also laid siege to a certain strong city, encompassed with bridges and walls, and inhabited by multitudes of different nations, the name of which is Casphin. 
    14: But they that were within it, trusting in the strength of the walls, and the provision of victuals, behaved in a more negligent manner, and provoked Judas with railing and blaspheming, and uttering such words as were not to be spoken. 
    15: But Machabeus calling upon the great Lord of the world, who without any rams or engines of war threw down the walls of Jericho in the time of Josue, fiercely assaulted the walls.
    16: And having taken the city by the will of the Lord, he made an unspeakable slaughter, so that a pool adjoining of two furlongs broad seemed to run with the blood of the slain. 
    17: From thence they departed seven hundred and fifty furlongs, and came to Characa to the Jews that are called Tubianites. 
    18: But as for Timotheus, they found him not in those places, for before he had dispatched any thing he went back, having left a very strong garrison in a certain hold: 
    19: But Dositheus, and Sosipater, who were captains with Machabeus, slew them that were left by Timotheus in the hold, to the number of ten thousand men. 
    20: And Machabeus having set in order about him six thousand men, and divided them by bands, went forth against Timotheus, who had with him a hundred and twenty thousand footmen, and two thousand five hundred horsemen.
    21: Now when Timotheus had knowledge of the coming of Judas, he sent the women and children, and the other baggage before him into a fortress, called Carnion: for it was impregnable and hard to come at, by reason of the straitness of the places. 
    22: But when the first band of Judas came in sight, the enemies were struck with fear, by the presence of God, who seeth all things, and they were put to flight one from another, so that they were often thrown down by their own companions, and wounded with the strokes of their own swords. 
    23: But Judas was vehemently earnest in punishing the profane, of whom he slew thirty thousand men. 
    24: And Timotheus himself fell into the hands of the band of Dositheus and Sosipater, and with many prayers he besought them to let him go with his life, because he had the parents and brethren of many of the Jews, who, by his death, might happen to be deceived. 
    25: And when he had given his faith that he would restore them according to the agreement, they let him go without hurt, for the saving of their brethren.
    26: Then Judas went away to Carnion, where he slew five and twenty thousand persons. 
    27: And after he had put to flight and destroyed these, he removed his army to Ephron, a strong city, wherein there dwelt a multitude of divers nations: and stout young men standing upon the walls made a vigorous resistance: and in this place there were many engines of war, and a provision of darts. 
    28: But when they had invocated the Almighty, who with his power breaketh the strength of the enemies, they took the city; and slew five and twenty thousand of them that were within. 
    29: From thence they departed to Scythopolis, which lieth six hundred furlongs from Jerusalem. 
    30: But the Jews that were among the Scythopolitans testifying that they were used kindly by them, and that even in the times of their adversity they had treated them with humanity:
    31: They gave them thanks exhorting them to be still friendly to their nation, and so they came to Jerusalem, the feast of the weeks being at hand. 
    32: And after Pentecost they marched against Gorgias the governor of Idumea. 
    33: And he came out with three thousand footmen, and four hundred horsemen. 
    34: And when they had joined battle, it happened that a few of the Jews were slain. 
    35: But Dositheus, a horseman, one of Bacenor's band, a valiant man, took hold of Gorgias: and when he would have taken him alive, a certain horseman of the Thracians came upon him, and cut off his shoulder: and so Gorgias escaped to Maresa.
    36: But when they that were with Esdrin had fought long, and were weary, Judas called upon the Lord to be their helper, and leader of the battle: 
    37: Then beginning in his own language, and singing hymns with a loud voice, he put Gorgias' soldiers to flight. 
    38: So Judas having gathered together his army, came into the city Odollam: and when the seventh day came, they purified themselves according to the custom, and kept the sabbath in the place. 
    39: And the day following Judas came with his company, to take away the bodies of them that were slain, and to bury them with their kinsmen, in the sepulchres of their fathers. 
    40: And they found under the coats of the slain some of the donaries of the idols of Jamnia, which the law forbiddeth to the Jews: so that all plainly saw, that for this cause they were slain.
    41: Then they all blessed the just judgment of the Lord, who had discovered the things that were hidden. 
    42: And so betaking themselves to prayers, they besought him, that the sin which had been committed might be forgotten. But the most valiant Judas exhorted the people to keep themselves from sin, forasmuch as they saw before their eyes what had happened, because of the sins of those that were slain. 
    43: And making a gathering, he sent twelve thousand drachms of silver to Jerusalem for sacrifice to be offered for the sins of the dead, thinking well and religiously concerning the resurrection, 
    44: (For if he had not hoped that they that were slain should rise again, it would have seemed superfluous and vain to pray for the dead,) 
    45: And because he considered that they who had fallen asleep with godliness, had great grace laid up for them.
    46: It is therefore a holy and wholesome thought to pray for the dead, that they may be loosed from sins.

End of day 131.