Day 127:

Reading 1-Maccabees, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: In the mean time when Demetrius heard that Nicanor and his army were fallen in battle, he sent again Bacchides and Alcimus into Judea; and the right wing of his army with them. 
    2: And they took the road that leadeth to Galgal, and they camped in Masaloth, which is in Arabella: and they made themselves masters of it, and slew many people. 
    3: In the first month of the hundred and fifty-second year they brought the army to Jerusalem: 
    4: And they arose, and went to Berea with twenty thousand men, and two thousand horsemen. 
    5: Now Judas had pitched his tents in Laisa, and three thousand chosen men with him:
    6: And they saw the multitude of the army that they were many, and they were seized with great fear: and many withdrew themselves out of the camp, and there remained of them no more than eight hundred men. 
    7: And Judas saw that his army slipped away, and the battle pressed upon him, and his heart was cast down: because he had not time to gather them together, and he was discouraged. 
    8: Then he said to them that remained: Let us arise, and go against our enemies, if we may be able to fight against them. 
    9: But they dissuaded him, saying: We shall not be able, but let us save our lives now, and return to our brethren, and then we will fight against them: for we are but few. 
    10: Then Judas said: God forbid we should do this thing, and flee away from them: but if our time be come, let us die manfully for our brethren, and let us not stain our glory.
    11: And the army removed out of the camp, and they stood over against them: and the horsemen were divided into two troops, and the slingers, and the archers went before the army, and they that were in the front were all men of valour. 
    12: And Bacchides was in the right wing, and the legion drew near on two sides, and they sounded the trumpets: 
    13: And they also were on Judas' side, even they also cried out, and the earth shook at the noise of the armies: and the battle was fought from morning even unto the evening. 
    14: And Judas perceived that the stronger part of the army of Bacchides was on the right side, and all the stout of heart came together with him: 
    15: And the right wing was discomfited by them, and he pursued them even to the mount Azotus.
    16: And they that were in the left wing saw that the right wing was discomfited, and they followed after Judas, and them that were with him, at their back: 
    17: And the battle was hard fought, and there fell many wounded of the one side and of the other. 
    18: And Judas was slain, and the rest fled away. 
    19: And Jonathan and Simon took Judas their brother, and buried him in the sepulchre of their fathers in the city of Modin. 
    20: And all the people of Israel bewailed him with great lamentation, and they mourned for him many days.
    21: And said: How is the mighty man fallen, that saved the people of Israel! 
    22: But the rest of the words of the wars of Judas, and of the noble acts that he did, and of his greatness, are not written: for they were very many. 
    23: And it came to pass after the death of Judas, that the wicked began to put forth their heads in all the confines of Israel, and all the workers of iniquity rose up. 
    24: In those days there was a very great famine, and they and all their country yielded to Bacchides. 
    25: And Bacchides chose the wicked men, and made them lords of the country:
    26: And they sought out, and made diligent search after the friends of Judas, and brought them to Bacchides, and he took vengeance of them, and abused them. 
    27: And there was a great tribulation in Israel, such as was not since the day, that there was no prophet seen in Israel. 
    28: And all the friends of Judas came together, and said to Jonathan: 
    29: Since thy brother Judas died, there is not a man like him to go forth against our enemies, Bacchides, and them that are the enemies of our nation. 
    30: Now therefore we have chosen thee this day to be our prince, and captain in his stead to fight our battles.
    31: So Jonathan took upon him the government at that time, and rose up in the place of Judas his brother. 
    32: And Bacchides had knowledge of it, and sought to kill him. 
    33: And Jonathan and Simon his brother, knew it, and all that were with them: and they fled into the desert of Thecua, and they pitched by the water of the lake of Asphar, 
    34: And Bacchides understood it, and he came himself with all his army over the Jordan on the sabbath day. 
    35: And Jonathan sent his brother a captain of the people, to desire the Nabutheans his friends, that they would lend them their equipage, which was copious.
    36: And the children of Jambri came forth out of Madaba, and took John, and all that he had, and went away with them. 
    37: After this it was told Jonathan, and Simon his brother, that the children of Jambri made a great marriage, and were bringing the bride out of Madaba, the daughter of one of the great princes of Chanaan, with great pomp. 
    38: And the remembered the blood of John their brother: and they went up, and hid themselves under the covert of the mountain. 
    39: And they lifted up their eyes, and saw: and behold a tumult, and great preparation: and the bridegroom came forth, and his friends, and his brethren to meet them with timbrels, and musical instruments, and many weapons. 
    40: And they rose up against them from the place where they lay in ambush, and slew them, and there fell many wounded, and the rest fled into the mountains, and they took all their spoils:
    41: And the marriage was turned into mourning, and the noise of their musical instruments into lamentation. 
    42: And they took revenge for the blood of their brother: and they returned to the bank of the Jordan. 
    43: And Bacchides heard it, and he came on the sabbath day even to the bank of the Jordan with a great power. 
    44: And Jonathan said to his company: Let us arise, and fight against our enemies: for it is not now as yesterday, and the day before. 
    45: And behold the battle is before us, and the water of the Jordan on this side and on that side, and banks, and marshes, and woods: and there is no place for us to turn aside.
    46: Now therefore cry ye to heaven, that ye may be delivered from the hand of your enemies. And they joined battle. 
    47: And Jonathan stretched forth his hand to strike Bacchides, but he turned away from him backwards. 
    48: And Jonathan, and they that were with him leaped into the Jordan, and swam over the Jordan to them: 
    49: And there fell of Bacchides' side that day a thousand men: and they returned to Jerusalem, 
    50: And they built strong cities in Judea, the fortress that was in Jericho, and in Ammaus, and in Bethoron, and in Bethel, and Thamnata, and Phara, and Thopo, with high walls, and gates, and bars.
    51: And he placed garrisons in them, that they might wage war against Israel: 
    52: And he fortified the city of Bethsura, and Gazara, and the castle, and set garrisons in them, and provisions of victuals: 
    53: And he took the sons of the chief men of the country for hostages, and put them in the castle in Jerusalem in custody. 
    54: Now in the year one hundred and fifty-three, the second month, Alcimus commanded the walls of the inner court of the sanctuary to be thrown down, and the works of the prophets to be destroyed: and he began to be destroyed: and he began to destroy. 
    55: At that time Alcimus was struck: and his works were hindered, and his mouth was stopped, and he was taken with a palsy, so that he could no more speak a word, nor give order concerning his house.
    56: And Alcimus died at that time in great torment. 
    57: And Bacchides saw that Alcimus was dead: and he returned to the king, and the land was quiet for two years. 
    58: And all the wicked held a council, saying: Behold Jonathan, and they that are with him, dwell at ease, and without fear: now therefore let us bring Bacchides hither, and he shall take them all in one night. 
    59: So they went, and gave him counsel. 
    60: And he arose to come with a great army: and he sent secretly letters to his adherents that were in Judea, to seize upon Jonathan, and them that were with him: but they could not, for their design was known to them.
    61: And he apprehended of the men of the country, that were the principal authors of the mischief, fifty men, and slew them. 
    62: And Jonathan, and Simon, and they that were with him retired into Bethbessen, which is in the desert: and he repaired the breaches thereof, and they fortified it. 
    63: And when Bacchides knew it, he gathered together all his multitude: and sent word to them that were of Judea. 
    64: And he came, and camped above Bethbessen, and fought against it many days, and made engines. 
    65: But Jonathan left his brother Simon in the city, and went forth into the country: and came with a number of men.
    66: And struck Odares, and his brethren, and the children of Phaseron in their tents, and he began to slay, and to increase in forces. 
    67: But Simon and they that were with him, sallied out of the city, and burnt the engines. 
    68: And they fought against Bacchides, and he was discomfited by them: and they afflicted him exceedingly, for his counsel, and his enterprise was in vain. 
    69: And he was angry with the wicked men that had given him counsel to come into their country, and he slew many of them: and he purposed to return with the rest into their country. 
    70: And Jonathan had knowledge of it, and he sent ambassadors to him to make peace with him, and to restore to him the prisoners.
    71: And he accepted it willingly, and did according to his words, and swore that he would do him no harm all the days of his life. 
    72: And he restored to him the prisoners which he before had taken out of the land of Juda: and he returned and went away into his own country, and he came no more into their borders. 
    73: So the sword ceased from Israel: and Jonathan dwelt in Machmas, and Jonathan began there to judge the people, and he destroyed the wicked out of Israel.

  Chapter 10.

    1: Now in the hundred and sixtieth year Alexander the son of Antiochus, surnamed the Illustrious, came up and took Ptolemais, and they received him, and he reigned there. 
    2: And king Demetrius heard of it, and gathered together an exceeding great army, and went forth against him to fight. 
    3: And Demetrius sent a letter to Jonathan with peaceable words, to magnify him. 
    4: For he said: Let us first make a peace with him, before he make one with Alexander against us. 
    5: For he will remember all the evils that we have done against him, and against his brother, and against his nation.
    6: And he gave him authority to gather together an army, and to make arms, and that he should be his confederate: and the hostages that were in the castle, he commanded to be delivered to him. 
    7: And Jonathan came to Jerusalem, and read the letters in the hearing of all the people, and of them that were in the castle. 
    8: And they were struck with great fear, because they heard that the king had given him authority to gather together an army. 
    9: And the hostages were delivered to Jonathan, and he restored them to their parents. 
    10: And Jonathan dwelt in Jerusalem, and began to build, and to repair the city.
    11: And he ordered workmen to build the walls, and mount Sion round about with square stones for fortification: and so they did. 
    12: And the strangers that were in the strong holds, which Bacchides had built, fled away. 
    13: And every man left his place, and departed into his own country: 
    14: Only in Bethsura there remained some of them, that had forsaken the law, and the commandments of God: for this was a place of refuge for them. 
    15: And king Alexander heard of the promises that Demetrius had made Jonathan: and they told him of the battles, and the worthy acts that he, and his brethren had done, and the labours that they had endured.
    16: And he said: Shall we find such another man? now therefore we will make him our friend and our confederate. 
    17: So he wrote a letter, and sent it to him according to these words, saying: 
    18: King Alexander to his brother Jonathan, greeting. 
    19: We have heard of thee, that thou art a man of great power, and fit to be our friend: 
    20: Now therefore we make thee this day high priest of thy nation, and that thou be called the king's friend, (and he sent him a purple robe, and a crown of gold,) and that thou be of one mind with us in our affairs, and keep friendship with us.
    21: Then Jonathan put on the holy vestment in the seventh month, in the year one hundred and threescore, at the feast day of the tabernacles: and he gathered together an army, and made a great number of arms. 
    22: And Demetrius heard these words, and was exceeding sorry, and said: 
    23: What is this that we have done, that Alexander hath prevented us to gain the friendship of the Jews to strengthen himself? 
    24: I also will write to them words of request, and offer dignities, and gifts: that they may be with me to aid me. 
    25: And he wrote to them in these words: King Demetrius to the nation of the Jews, greeting.
    26: Whereas you have kept covenant with us, and have continued in our friendship, and have not joined with our enemies, we have heard of it, and are glad. 
    27: Wherefore now continue still to keep fidelity towards us, and we will reward you with good things, for what you have done in our behalf. 
    28: And we will remit to you many charges, and will give you gifts. 
    29: And now I free you, and all the Jews from tributes, and I release you from the customs of salt, and remit the crowns, and the thirds of the seed: 
    30: And the half of the fruit of trees, which is my share, I leave to you from this day forward, so that it shall not be taken of the land of Juda, and of the three cities that are added thereto out of Samaria and Galilee, from this day forth and for ever:
    31: And let Jerusalem be holy and free, with the borders thereof: and let the tenths, and tributes be for itself. 
    32: I yield up also the power of the castle that is in Jerusalem, and I give it to the high priest, to place therein such men as he shall choose to keep it. 
    33: And every soul of the Jews that hath been carried captive from the land of Juda in all my kingdom, I set at liberty freely, that all be discharged from tributes even of their cattle. 
    34: And I will that all the feasts, and the sabbaths, and the new moons, and the days appointed, and three days before the solemn day, and three days after the solemn day, be all days of immunity and freedom, for all the Jews that are in my kingdom: 
    35: And no man shall have power to do any thing against them, or to molest any of them, in any cause.
    36: And let there be enrolled in the king's army to the number of thirty thousand of the Jews: and allowance shall be made them as is due to all the king's forces, and certain of them shall be appointed to be in the fortresses of the great king: 
    37: And some of them shall be set over the affairs of the kingdom, that are of trust, and let the governors be taken from among themselves, and let them walk in their own laws, as the king hath commanded in the land of Juda. 
    38: And the three cities that are added to Judea, out of the country of Samaria, let them be accounted with Judea: that they may be under one, and obey no other authority but that of the high priest: 
    39: Ptolemais, and the confines thereof, I give as a free gift to the holy places, that are in Jerusalem, for the necessary charges of the holy things. 
    40: And I give every year fifteen thousand sicles of silver out of the king's accounts, of what belongs to me:
    41: And all that is above, which they that were over the affairs the years before, had not paid, from this time they shall give it to the works of the house. 
    42: Moreover the five thousand sicles of silver which they received from the account of the holy places, every year, shall also belong to the priests that execute the ministry. 
    43: And whosoever shall flee into the temple that is in Jerusalem, and in all the borders thereof, being indebted to the king for any matter, let them be set at liberty, and all that they have in my kingdom, let them have it free. 
    44: For the building also, or repairing the works of the holy places, the charges shall be given out of the king's revenues: 
    45: For the building also of the walls of Jerusalem, and the fortifying thereof round about, the charges shall be given out of the king's account, as also for the building of the walls in Judea.
    46: Now when Jonathan, and the people heard these words, they gave no credit to them nor received them: because they remembered the great evil that he had done in Israel, for he had afflicted them exceedingly. 
    47: And their inclinations were towards Alexander, because he had been the chief promoter of peace in their regard, and him they always helped. 
    48: And king Alexander gathered together a great army, and moved his camp near to Demetrius. 
    49: And the two kings joined battle, and the army of Demetrius fled away, and Alexander pursued after him, and pressed them close. 
    50: And the battle was hard fought till the sun went down: and Demetrius was slain that day.
    51: And Alexander sent ambassadors to Ptolemee king of Egypt, with words to this effect, saying: 
    52: Forasmuch as I am returned into my kingdom, and am set in the throne of my ancestors and have gotten the dominion, and have overthrown Demetrius, and possessed our country, 
    53: And have joined battle with him, and both he and his army have been destroyed by us, and we are placed in the throne of his kingdom: 
    54: Now therefore let us make friendship one with another: and give me now thy daughter to wife, and I will be thy son in law, and I will give both thee and her gifts worthy of thee. 
    55: And king Ptolemee answered, saying: Happy is the day wherein thou didst return to the land of thy fathers, and sattest in the throne of their kingdom.
    56: And now I will do to thee as thou hast written: but meet me at Ptolemais, that we may see one another, and I may give her to thee as thou hast said. 
    57: So Ptolemee went out of Egypt, with Cleopatra his daughter, and he came to Ptolemais in the hundred and sixty-second year. 
    58: And king Alexander met him, and he gave him his daughter Cleopatra: and he celebrated her marriage at Ptolemais, with great glory, after the manner of kings. 
    59: And king Alexander wrote to Jonathan, that he should come and meet him. 
    60: And he went honourably to Ptolemais, and he met there the two kings, and he gave them much silver, and gold, and presents: and he found favour in their sight.
    61: And some pestilent men of Israel, men of a wicked life, assembled themselves against him to accuse him: and the king gave no heed to them. 
    62: And he commanded that Jonathan's garments should be taken off, and that he should be clothed with purple: and they did so. And the king made him sit by himself. 
    63: And he said to his princes: Go out with him into the midst of the city, and make proclamation, that no man complain against him of any matter, and that no man trouble him for any manner of cause. 
    64: So when his accusers saw his glory proclaimed, and him clothed with purple, they all fled away. 
    65: And the king magnified him, and enrolled him amongst his chief friends, and made him governor and partaker of his dominion.
    66: And Jonathan returned into Jerusalem with peace and joy. 
    67: In the year one hundred and sixty-five Demetrius the son of Demetrius came from Crete into the land of his fathers. 
    68: And king Alexander heard of it, and was much troubled, and returned to Antioch. 
    69: And king Demetrius made Apollonius his general, who was governor of Celesyria: and he gathered together a great army, and came to Jamnia: and he sent to Jonathan the high priest, 
    70: Saying: Thou alone standest against us, and I am laughed at, and reproached, because thou shewest thy power against us in the mountains.
    71: Now therefore if thou trustest in thy forces, come down to us into the plain, and there let us try one another: for with me is the strength of war. 
    72: Ask, and learn who I am, and the rest that help me, who also say that your foot cannot stand before our face, for thy fathers have twice been put to flight in their own land: 
    73: And now how wilt thou be able to abide the horsemen, and so great an army in the plain, where there is no stone, nor rock, nor place to flee to? 
    74: Now when Jonathan heard the words of Apollonius, he was moved in his mind: and he chose ten thousand men, and went out of Jerusalem, and Simon his brother met him to help him. 
    75: And they pitched their tents near Joppe, but they shut him out of the city: because a garrison of Apollonius was in Joppe, and he laid siege to it.
    76: And they that were in the city being affrighted, opened the gates to him: so Jonathan took Joppe. 
    77: And Apollonius heard of it, and he took three thousand horsemen, and a great army. 
    78: And he went to Azotus as one that was making a journey, and immediately he went forth into the plain: because he had a great number of horsemen, and he trusted in them. And Jonathan followed after him to Azotus, and they joined battle. 
    79: And Apollonius left privately in the camp a thousand horsemen behind them. 
    80: And Jonathan knew that there was an ambush behind him, and they surrounded his army, and cast darts at the people from morning till evening.
    81: But the people stood still, as Jonathan had commanded them: and so their horses were fatigued. 
    82: Then Simon drew forth his army, and attacked the legion: for the horsemen were wearied: and they were discomfited by him, and fled. 
    83: And they that were scattered about the plain, fled into Azotus, and went into Bethdagon their idol's temple, there to save themselves. 
    84: But Jonathan set fire to Azotus, and the cities that were around it, and took the spoils of them, and the temple of Dagon: and all them that were fled into it, he burnt with fire. 
    85: So they that were slain by the sword, with them that were burnt, were almost eight thousand men.
    86: And Jonathan removed his army from thence, and camped against Ascalon: and they went out of the city to meet him with great honour. 
    87: And Jonathan returned into Jerusalem with his people, having many spoils. 
    88: And it came to pass: When Alexander the king heard these words, that he honoured Jonathan yet more. 
    89: And he sent him a buckle of gold, as the custom is, to be given to such as are of the royal blood. And he gave him Accaron and all the borders thereof in possession.

  Chapter 11.

    1: And the king of Egypt gathered together an army, like the sand that lieth upon the sea shore, and many ships: and he sought to get the kingdom of Alexander by deceit, and join it to his own kingdom. 
    2: And he went out into Syria with peaceable words, and they opened to him the cities, and met him: for king Alexander had ordered them to go forth to meet him, because he was his father in law. 
    3: Now when Ptolemee entered into the cities, he put garrisons of soldiers in every city. 
    4: And when he came near to Azotus, they shewed him the temple of Dagon that was burnt with fire, and Azotus, and the suburbs thereof that were destroyed, and the bodies that were cast abroad, and the graves of them that were slain in the battle, which they had made near the way. 
    5: And they told the king that Jonathan had done these things, to make him odious: but the king held his peace.
    6: And Jonathan came to meet the king at Joppe with glory, and they saluted one another, and they lodged there. 
    7: And Jonathan went with the king as far as the river, called Eleutherus: and he returned into Jerusalem. 
    8: And king Ptolemee got the dominion of the cities by the sea side, even to Seleucia, and he devised evil designs against Alexander. 
    9: And he sent ambassadors to Demetrius, saying: Come, let us make a league between us, and I will give thee my daughter whom Alexander hath, and thou shalt reign in the kingdom of thy father. 
    10: For I repent that I have given him my daughter: for he hath sought to kill me.
    11: And he slandered him, because he coveted his kingdom. 
    12: And he took away his daughter, and gave her to Demetrius, and alienated himself from Alexander, and his enmities were made manifest. 
    13: And Ptolemee entered into Antioch, and set two crowns upon his head, that of Egypt, and that of Asia. 
    14: Now king Alexander was in Cilicia at that time: because they that were in those places had rebelled. 
    15: And when Alexander heard of it, he came to give him battle, and king Ptolemee brought forth his army, and met him with a strong power, and put him to flight.
    16: And Alexander fled into Arabia, there to be protected: and king Ptolemee was exalted. 
    17: And Zabdiel the Arabian took off Alexander's head, and sent it to Ptolemee. 
    18: And king Ptolemee died the third day after: and they that were in the strong holds were destroyed by them that were within the camp. 
    19: And Demetrius reigned in the hundred and sixty-seventh year. 
    20: In those days Jonathan gathered together them that were in Judea, to take the castle that was in Jerusalem: and they made many engines of war against it.
    21: Then some wicked men that hated their own nation, went away to king Demetrius, and told him that Jonathan was besieging the castle. 
    22: And when he heard it, he was angry: and forthwith he came to Ptolemais, and wrote to Jonathan, that he should not besiege the castle, but should come to him in haste, and speak to him. 
    23: But when Jonathan heard this, he bade them besiege it still: and he chose some of the ancients of Israel, and of the priests, and put himself in danger. 
    24: And he took gold, and silver, and raiment, and many other presents, and went to the king to Ptolemais, and he found favour in his sight. 
    25: And certain wicked men of his nation made complaints against him.
    26: And the king treated him as his predecessor had done before: and he exalted him in the sight of all his friends. 
    27: And he confirmed him in the high priesthood, and all the honours he had before, and he made him the chief of his friends. 
    28: And Jonathan requested of the king that he would make Judea free from tribute, and the three governments, and Samaria, and the confines thereof: and he promised him three hundred talents. 
    29: And the king consented: and he wrote letters to Jonathan of all these things to this effect. 
    30: King Demetrius to his brother Jonathan, and to the nation of the Jews, greeting.
    31: We send you here a copy of the letter, which we have written to Lasthenes our parent concerning you, that you might know it. 
    32: King Demetrius to Lasthenes his parent, greeting. 
    33: We have determined to do good to the nation of the Jews who are our friends, and keep the things that are just with us, for their good will which they bear towards us. 
    34: We have ratified therefore unto them all the borders of Judea, and the three cities, Apherema, Lydda, and Ramatha, which are added to Judea, out of Samaria, and all their confines, to be set apart to all them that sacrifice in Jerusalem, instead of the payments which the king received of them every year, and for the fruits of the land, and of the trees. 
    35: And as for other things that belonged to us of the tithes, and of the tributes, from this time we discharge them of them: the saltpans also, and the crowns that were presented to us.
    36: We give all to them, and nothing hereof shall be revoked from this time forth and for ever. 
    37: Now therefore see that thou make a copy of these things, and let it be given to Jonathan, and set upon the holy mountain, in a conspicuous place. 
    38: And king Demetrius seeing that the land was quiet before him, and nothing resisted him, sent away all his forces, every man to his own place, except the foreign army, which he had drawn together from the islands of the nations: so all the troops of his fathers hated him. 
    39: Now there was one Tryphon who had been of Alexander's party before: who seeing that all the army murmured against Demetrius, went to Emalchuel the Arabian, who brought up Antiochus the son of Alexander. 
    40: And he pressed him much to deliver him to him, that he might be king in his father's place: and he told him all that Demetrius had done, and how his soldiers hated him. And he remained there many days.
    41: And Jonathan sent to king Demetrius, desiring that he would cast out them that were in the castle in Jerusalem, and those that were in the strong holds: because they fought against Israel. 
    42: And Demetrius sent to Jonathan, saying: I will not only do this for thee, and for thy people, but I will greatly honour thee, and thy nation, when opportunity shall serve. 
    43: Now therefore thou shalt do well if thou send me men to help me: for all my army is gone from me. 
    44: And Jonathan sent him three thousand valiant men to Antioch: and they came to the king, and the king was very glad of their coming. 
    45: And they that were of the city assembled themselves together, to the number of a hundred and twenty thousand men, and would have killed the king.
    46: And the king fled into the palace, and they of the city kept the passages of the city, and began to fight. 
    47: And the king called the Jews to his assistance: and they came to him all at once, and they all dispersed themselves through the city. 
    48: And they slew in that day a hundred thousand men, and they set fire to the city, and got many spoils that day, and delivered the king. 
    49: And they that were of the city saw that the Jews had got the city as they would: and they were discouraged in their minds, and cried to the king, making supplication, and saying: 
    50: Grant us peace, and let the Jews cease from assaulting us, and the city.
    51: And they threw down their arms, and made peace, and the Jews were glorified in the sight of the king, and in the sight of all that were in his realm, and were renowned throughout the kingdom, and returned to Jerusalem with many spoils. 
    52: So king Demetrius sat in the throne of his kingdom: and the land was quiet before him. 
    53: And he falsified all whatsoever he had said, and alienated himself from Jonathan, and did not reward him according to the benefits he had received from him, but gave him great trouble. 
    54: And after this Tryphon returned, and with him Antiochus the young boy, who was made king, and put on the diadem. 
    55: And there assembled unto him all the hands which Demetrius had sent away, and they fought against Demetrius, who turned his back and fled.
    56: And Tryphon took the elephants, and made himself master of Antioch. 
    57: And young Antiochus wrote to Jonathan, saying: I confirm thee in the high priesthood, and I appoint thee ruler over the four cities, and to be one of the king's friends. 
    58: And he sent him vessels of gold for his service, and he gave him leave to drink in gold, and to be clothed in purple, and to wear a golden buckle: 
    59: And he made his brother Simon governor from the borders of Tyre even to the confines of Egypt. 
    60: Then Jonathan went forth and passed through the cities beyond the river: and all the forces of Syria gathered themselves to him to help him, and he came to Ascalon, and they met him honourably out of the city.
    61: And he went from thence to Gaza: and they that were in Gaza shut him out: and he besieged it, and burnt all the suburbs round about, and took the spoils. 
    62: And the men of Gaza made supplication to Jonathan, and he gave them the right hand: and he took their sons for hostages, and sent them to Jerusalem: and he went through the country as far as Damascus. 
    63: And Jonathan heard that the generals of Demetrius were come treacherously to Cades, which is in Galilee, with a great army, purposing to remove him from the affairs of the kingdom: 
    64: And he went against them: but left his brother Simon in the country. 
    65: And Simon encamped against Bethsura, and assaulted it many days, and shut them up.
    66: And they desired him to make peace, and he granted it them: and he cast them out from thence, and took the city, and placed a garrison in it. 
    67: And Jonathan, and his army encamped by the water of Genesar, and before it was light they were ready in the plain of Asor. 
    68: And behold the army of the strangers met him in the plain, and they laid an ambush for him in the mountains: but he went out against them. 
    69: And they that lay in ambush arose out of their places, and joined battle. 
    70: And all that were on Jonathan's side fled, and none was left of them, but Mathathias the son of Absalom, and Judas the son of Calphi, chief captain of the army.
    71: And Jonathan rent his garments, and cast earth upon his head, and prayed. 
    72: And Jonathan turned again to them to battle, and he put them to flight, and they fought. 
    73: And they of his part that fled saw this, and they turned again to him, and they all with him pursued the enemies even to Cades to their own camp, and they came even thither. 
    74: And there fell of the aliens in that day three thousand men: and Jonathan returned to Jerusalem.

  Chapter 12.

    1: And Jonathan saw that the time served him, and he chose certain men and sent them to Rome, to confirm and to renew the amity with them: 
    2: And he sent letters to the Spartans, and to other places according to the same form. 
    3: And they went to Rome, and entered into the senate house, and said: Jonathan the high priest, and the nation of the Jews have sent us to renew the amity, and alliance as it was before. 
    4: And they gave them letters to their governors in every place, to conduct them into the land of Juda with peace. 
    5: And this is a copy of the letters which Jonathan wrote to the Spartans:
    6: Jonathan the high priest, and the ancients of the nation, and the priests, and the rest of the people of the Jews, to the Spartans, their brethren, greeting. 
    7: There were letters sent long ago to Onias the high priest from Arius who reigned then among you, to signify that you are our brethren, as the copy here underwritten doth specify. 
    8: And Onias received the ambassador with honour: and received the letters wherein there was mention made of the alliance, and amity. 
    9: We, though we needed none of these things, having for our comfort the holy books that are in our hands, 
    10: Chose rather to send to you to renew the brotherhood and friendship, lest we should become strangers to you altogether: for there is a long time passed since you sent to us.
    11: We therefore at all times without ceasing, both in our festivals, and other days, wherein it is convenient, remember you in the sacrifices that we offer, and in our observances, as it is meet, and becoming to remember brethren. 
    12: And we rejoice at your glory. 
    13: But we have had many troubles and wars on every side, and the kings that are round about us, have fought against us. 
    14: But we would not be troublesome to you, nor the rest of our allies and friends in these wars. 
    15: For we have had help from heaven, and we have been delivered, and our enemies are humbled.
    16: We have chosen therefore Numenius the son of Antiochus, and Antipater the son of Jason, and have sent them to the Romans to renew with them the former amity and alliance. 
    17: And we have commanded them to go also to you, and to salute you, and to deliver you our letters, concerning the renewing of our brotherhood. 
    18: And now you shall do well to give us an answer hereto. 
    19: And this is the copy of the letter which he had sent to Onias: 
    20: Arius king of the Spartans to Onias the high priest, greeting.
    21: It is found in writing concerning the Spartans, and the Jews, that they are brethren, and that they are of the stock of Abraham. 
    22: And now since this is come to our knowledge, you do well to write to us of your prosperity. 
    23: And we also have written back to you: That our cattle, and our possessions are yours: and yours, ours. We therefore have commanded that these things should be told you. 
    24: Now Jonathan heard that the generals of Demetrius were come again with a greater army than before to fight against him. 
    25: So he went out from Jerusalem, and met them in the land of Amath: for he gave them no time to enter into his country.
    26: And he sent spies into their camp, and they came back and brought him word that they designed to come upon them in the night. 
    27: And when the sun was set, Jonathan commanded his men to watch, and to be in arms all night long ready to fight, and he set sentinels round about the camp. 
    28: And the enemies heard that Jonathan and his men were ready for battle, and they were struck with fear, and dread in their heart: and they kindled fires in their camp. 
    29: But Jonathan and they that were with him knew it not till the morning: for they saw the lights burning. 
    30: And Jonathan pursued after them, but overtook them not: for they had passed the river Eleutherus.
    31: And Jonathan turned upon the Arabians that are called Zabadeans: and he defeated them, and took the spoils of them. 
    32: And he went forward, and came to Damascus, and passed through all that country. 
    33: Simon also went forth, and came as far as Ascalon, and the neighbouring fortresses, and he turned aside to Joppe, and took possession of it, 
    34: (For he heard that they designed to deliver the hold to them that took part with Demetrius,) and he put a garrison there to keep it. 
    35: And Jonathan came back, and called together the ancients of the people, and he took a resolution with them to build fortresses in Judea,
    36: And to build up walls in Jerusalem, and raise a mount between the castle and the city, to separate it from the city, that so it might have no communication, and that they might neither buy nor sell. 
    37: And they came together to build up the city: for the wall that was upon the brook towards the east was broken down, and he repaired that which is called Caphetetha: 
    38: And Simon built Adiada in Sephela, and fortified it, and set up gates and bars. 
    39: Now when Tryphon had conceived a design to make himself king of Asia, and to take the crown, and to stretch out his hand against king Antiochus: 
    40: Fearing lest Jonathan would not suffer him, but would fight against him: he sought to seize upon him, and to kill him. So he rose up and came to Bethsan.
    41: And Jonathan went out to meet him with forty thousand men chosen for battle, and came to Bethsan. 
    42: Now when Tryphon saw that Jonathan came with a great army, he durst not stretch forth his hand against him, 
    43: But received him with honour, and commended him to all his friends, and gave him presents: and he commanded his troops to obey him, as himself. 
    44: And he said to Jonathan: Why hast thou troubled all the people, whereas we have no war? 
    45: Now therefore send them back to their own houses: and choose thee a few men that may be with thee, and come with me to Ptolemais, and I will deliver it to thee, and the rest of the strong holds, and the army, and all that have any charge, and I will return and go away: for this is the cause of my coming.
    46: And Jonathan believed him, and did as he said: and sent away his army, and they departed into the land of Juda: 
    47: But he kept with him three thousand men: of whom he sent two thousand into Galilee, and one thousand went with him. 
    48: Now as soon as Jonathan entered into Ptolemais, they of Ptolemais shut the gates of the city, and took him: and all them that came in with him they slew with the sword. 
    49: Then Tryphon sent an army and horsemen into Galilee, and into the great plain to destroy all Jonathan's company. 
    50: But they, when they understood that Jonathan and all that were with him were taken and slain, encouraged one another, and went out ready for battle.
    51: Then they that had come after them, seeing that they stood for their lives, returned back. 
    52: Whereupon they all came peaceably into the land of Juda. And they bewailed Jonathan, and them that had been with him, exceedingly: and Israel mourned with great lamentation. 
    53: Then all the heathens that were round about them, sought to destroy them. For they said: 
    54: They have no prince, nor any to help them: now therefore let us make war upon them, and take away the memory of them from amongst men.

End of day 127.