Day 291:

Reading Mark, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. 
    2: As it is written in Isaias the prophet: Behold I send my angel before thy face, who shall prepare the way before thee. 
    3: A voice of one crying in the desert: Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make straight his paths. 
    4: John was in the desert baptizing, and preaching the baptism of penance, unto remission of sins. 
    5: And there went out to him all the country of Judea, and all they of Jerusalem, and were baptized by him in the river of Jordan, confessing their sins.
    6: And John was clothed with camel's hair, and a leathern girdle about his loins; and he ate locusts and wild honey. 
    7: And he preached, saying: There cometh after me one mightier than I, the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to stoop down and loose. 
    8: I have baptized you with water; but he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost. 
    9: And it came to pass, in those days, Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee, and was baptized by John in the Jordan. 
    10: And forthwith coming up out of the water, he saw the heavens opened, and the Spirit as a dove descending, and remaining on him.
    11: And there came a voice from heaven: Thou art my beloved Son; in thee I am well pleased. 
    12: And immediately the Spirit drove him out into the desert. 
    13: And he was in the desert forty days and forty nights, and was tempted by Satan; and he was with beasts, and the angels ministered to him. 
    14: And after that John was delivered up, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God, 
    15: And saying: The time is accomplished, and the kingdom of God is at hand: repent, and believe the gospel.
    16: And passing by the sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew his brother, casting nets into the sea (for they were fishermen). 
    17: And Jesus said to them: Come after me, and I will make you to become fishers of men. 
    18: And immediately leaving their nets, they followed him. 
    19: And going on from thence a little farther, he saw James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, who also were mending their nets in the ship: 
    20: And forthwith he called them. And leaving their father Zebedee in the ship with his hired men, they followed him.
    21: And they entered into Capharnaum, and forthwith upon the sabbath days going into the synagogue, he taught them. 
    22: And they were astonished at his doctrine. For he was teaching them as one having power, and not as the scribes. 
    23: And there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit; and he cried out, 
    24: Saying: What have we to do with thee, Jesus of Nazareth? art thou come to destroy us? I know who thou art, the Holy One of God. 
    25: And Jesus threatened him, saying: Speak no more, and go out of the man.
    26: And the unclean spirit tearing him, and crying out with a loud voice, went out of him. 
    27: And they were all amazed, insomuch that they questioned among themselves, saying: What thing is this? what is this new doctrine? for with power he commandeth even the unclean spirits, and they obey him. 
    28: And the fame of him was spread forthwith into all the country of Galilee. 
    29: And immediately going out of the synagogue they came into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John. 
    30: And Simon's wife's mother lay in a fit of a fever: and forthwith they tell him of her.
    31: And coming to her, he lifted her up, taking her by the hand; and immediately the fever left her, and she ministered unto them. 
    32: And when it was evening, after sunset, they brought to him all that were ill and that were possessed with devils. 
    33: And all the city was gathered together at the door. 
    34: And he healed many that were troubled with divers diseases; and he cast out many devils, and he suffered them not to speak, because they knew him. 
    35: And rising very early, going out, he went into a desert place: and there he prayed.
    36: And Simon, and they that were with him, followed after him. 
    37: And when they had found him, they said to him: All seek for thee. 
    38: And he saith to them: Let us go into the neighbouring towns and cities, that I may preach there also; for to this purpose am I come. 
    39: And he was preaching in their synagogues, and in all Galilee, and casting out devils. 
    40: And there came a leper to him, beseeching him, and kneeling down said to him: If thou wilt, thou canst make me clean.
    41: And Jesus having compassion on him, stretched forth his hand; and touching him, saith to him: I will. Be thou made clean. 
    42: And when he had spoken, immediately the leprosy departed from him, and he was made clean. 
    43: And he strictly charged him, and forthwith sent him away. 
    44: And he saith to him: See thou tell no one; but go, shew thyself to the high priest, and offer for thy cleansing the things that Moses commanded, for a testimony to them. 
    45: But he being gone out, began to publish and to blaze abroad the word: so that he could not openly go into the city, but was without in desert places: and they flocked to him from all sides.

  Chapter 2.

    1: And again he entered into Capharnaum after some days. 
    2: And it was heard that he was in the house, and many came together, so that there was no room; no, not even at the door; and he spoke to them the word. 
    3: And they came to him, bringing one sick of the palsy, who was carried by four. 
    4: And when they could not offer him unto him for the multitude, they uncovered the roof where he was; and opening it, they let down the bed wherein the man sick of the palsy lay. 
    5: And when Jesus had seen their faith, he saith to the sick of the palsy: Son, thy sins are forgiven thee.
    6: And there were some of the scribes sitting there, and thinking in their hearts: 
    7: Why doth this man speak thus? he blasphemeth. Who can forgive sins, but God only? 
    8: Which Jesus presently knowing in his spirit, that they so thought within themselves, saith to them: Why think you these things in your hearts? 
    9: Which is easier, to say to the sick of the palsy: Thy sins are forgiven thee; or to say: Arise, take up thy bed, and walk? 
    10: But that you may know that the Son of man hath power on earth to forgive sins, (he saith to the sick of the palsy,)
    11: I say to thee: Arise, take up thy bed, and go into thy house. 
    12: And immediately he arose; and taking up his bed, went his way in the sight of all; so that all wondered and glorified God, saying: We never saw the like. 
    13: And he went forth again to the sea side; and all the multitude came to him, and he taught them. 
    14: And when he was passing by, he saw Levi the son of Alpheus sitting at the receipt of custom; and he saith to him: Follow me. And rising up, he followed him. 
    15: And it came to pass, that as he sat at meat in his house, many publicans and sinners sat down together with Jesus and his disciples. For they were many, who also followed him.
    16: And the scribes and the Pharisees, seeing that he ate with publicans and sinners, said to his disciples: Why doth your master eat and drink with publicans and sinners? 
    17: Jesus hearing this, saith to them: They that are well have no need of a physician, but they that are sick. For I came not to call the just, but sinners. 
    18: And the disciples of John and the Pharisees used to fast; and they come and say to him: Why do the disciples of John and of the Pharisees fast; but thy disciples do not fast? 
    19: And Jesus saith to them: Can the children of the marriage fast, as long as the bridegroom is with them? As long as they have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast. 
    20: But the days will come when the bridegroom shall be taken away from them; and then they shall fast in those days.
    21: No man seweth a piece of raw cloth to an old garment: otherwise the new piecing taketh away from the old, and there is made a greater rent. 
    22: And no man putteth new wine into old bottles: otherwise the wine will burst the bottles, and both the wine will be spilled, and the bottles will be lost. But new wine must be put into new bottles. 
    23: And it came to pass again, as the Lord walked through the corn fields on the sabbath, that his disciples began to go forward, and to pluck the ears of corn. 
    24: And the Pharisees said to him: Behold, why do they on the sabbath day that which is not lawful? 
    25: And he said to them: Have you never read what David did when he had need, and was hungry himself, and they that were with him?
    26: How he went into the house of God, under Abiathar the high priest, and did eat the loaves of proposition, which was not lawful to eat but for the priests, and gave to them who were with him? 
    27: And he said to them: The sabbath was made for man, and not man for the sabbath. 
    28: Therefore the Son of man is Lord of the sabbath also.

  Chapter 3.

    1: And he entered again into the synagogue, and there was a man there who had a withered hand. 
    2: And they watched him whether he would heal on the sabbath days; that they might accuse him. 
    3: And he said to the man who had the withered hand: Stand up in the midst. 
    4: And he saith to them: Is it lawful to do good on the sabbath days, or to do evil? to save life, or to destroy? But they held their peace. 
    5: And looking round about on them with anger, being grieved for the blindness of their hearts, he saith to the man: Stretch forth thy hand. And he stretched it forth: and his hand was restored unto him.
    6: And the Pharisees going out, immediately made a consultation with the Herodians against him, how they might destroy him. 
    7: But Jesus retired with his disciples to the sea; and a great multitude followed him from Galilee and Judea, 
    8: And from Jerusalem, and from Idumea, and from beyond the Jordan. And they about Tyre and Sidon, a great multitude, hearing the things which he did, came to him. 
    9: And he spoke to his disciples that a small ship should wait on him because of the multitude, lest they should throng him. 
    10: For he healed many, so that they pressed upon him for to touch him, as many as had evils.
    11: And the unclean spirits, when they saw him, fell down before him: and they cried, saying: 
    12: Thou art the Son of God. And he strictly charged them that they should not make him known. 
    13: And going up into a mountain, he called unto him whom he would himself: and they came to him. 
    14: And he made that twelve should be with him, and that he might send them to preach. 
    15: And he gave them power to heal sicknesses, and to cast out devils.
    16: And to Simon he gave the name Peter: 
    17: And James the son of Zebedee, and John the brother of James; and he named them Boanerges, which is, The sons of thunder: 
    18: And Andrew and Philip, and Bartholomew and Matthew, and Thomas and James of Alpheus, and Thaddeus, and Simon the Cananean: 
    19: And Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed him. 
    20: And they come to a house, and the multitude cometh together again, so that they could not so much as eat bread.
    21: And when his friends had heard of it, they went out to lay hold on him. For they said: He is become mad. 
    22: And the scribes who were come down from Jerusalem, said: He hath Beelzebub, and by the prince of devils he casteth out devils. 
    23: And after he had called them together, he said to them in parables: How can Satan cast out Satan? 
    24: And if a kingdom be divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand. 
    25: And if a house be divided against itself, that house cannot stand.
    26: And if Satan be risen up against himself, he is divided, and cannot stand, but hath an end. 
    27: No man can enter into the house of a strong man and rob him of his goods, unless he first bind the strong man, and then shall he plunder his house. 
    28: Amen I say to you, that all sins shall be forgiven unto the sons of men, and the blasphemies wherewith they shall blaspheme: 
    29: But he that shall blaspheme against the Holy Ghost, shall never have forgiveness, but shall be guilty of an everlasting sin. 
    30: Because they said: He hath an unclean spirit.
    31: And his mother and his brethren came; and standing without, sent unto him, calling him. 
    32: And the multitude sat about him; and they say to him: Behold thy mother and thy brethren without seek for thee. 
    33: And answering them, he said: Who is my mother and my brethren? 
    34: And looking round about on them who sat about him, he saith: Behold my mother and my brethren. 
    35: For whosoever shall do the will of God, he is my brother, and my sister, and mother.

  Chapter 4.

    1: And again he began to teach by the sea side; and a great multitude was gathered together unto him, so that he went up into a ship, and sat in the sea; and all the multitude was upon the land by the sea side. 
    2: And he taught them many things in parables, and said unto them in his doctrine: 
    3: Hear ye: Behold, the sower went out to sow. 
    4: And whilst he sowed, some fell by the way side, and the birds of the air came and ate it up. 
    5: And other some fell upon stony ground, where it had not much earth; and it shot up immediately, because it had no depth of earth.
    6: And when the sun was risen, it was scorched; and because it had no root, it withered away. 
    7: And some fell among thorns; and the thorns grew up, and choked it, and it yielded no fruit. 
    8: And some fell upon good ground; and brought forth fruit that grew up, and increased and yielded, one thirty, another sixty, and another a hundred. 
    9: And he said: He that hath ears to hear, let him hear. 
    10: And when he was alone, the twelve that were with him asked him the parable.
    11: And he said to them: To you it is given to know the mystery of the kingdom of God: but to them that are without, all things are done in parables: 
    12: That seeing they may see, and not perceive; and hearing they may hear, and not understand: lest at any time they should be converted, and their sins should be forgiven them. 
    13: And he saith to them: Are you ignorant of this parable? and how shall you know all parables? 
    14: He that soweth, soweth the word. 
    15: And these are they by the way side, where the word is sown, and as soon as they have heard, immediately Satan cometh and taketh away the word that was sown in their hearts.
    16: And these likewise are they that are sown on the stony ground: who when they have heard the word, immediately receive it with joy. 
    17: And they have no root in themselves, but are only for a time: and then when tribulation and persecution ariseth for the word they are presently scandalized. 
    18: And others there are who are sown among thorns: these are they that hear the word, 
    19: And the cares of the world, and the deceitfulness of riches, and the lusts after other things entering in choke the word, and it is made fruitless. 
    20: And these are they who are sown upon the good ground, who hear the word, and receive it, and yield fruit, the one thirty, another sixty, and another a hundred.
    21: And he said to them: Doth a candle come in to be put under a bushel, or under a bed? and not to be set on a candlestick? 
    22: For there is nothing hid, which shall not be made manifest: neither was it made secret, but that it may come abroad. 
    23: If any man have ears to hear, let him hear. 
    24: And he said to them: Take heed what you hear. In what measure you shall mete, it shall be measured to you again, and more shall be given to you. 
    25: For he that hath, to him shall be given: and he that hath not, that also which he hath shall be taken away from him.
    26: And he said: So is the kingdom of God, as if a man should cast seed into the earth, 
    27: And should sleep, and rise, night and day, and the seed should spring, and grow up whilst he knoweth not. 
    28: For the earth of itself bringeth forth fruit, first the blade, then the ear, afterwards the full corn in the ear. 
    29: And when the fruit is brought forth, immediately he putteth in the sickle, because the harvest is come. 
    30: And he said: To what shall we liken the kingdom of God? or to what parable shall we compare it?
    31: It is as a grain of mustard seed: which when it is sown in the earth, is less than all the seeds that are in the earth: 
    32: And when it is sown, it groweth up, and becometh greater than all herbs, and shooteth out great branches, so that the birds of the air may dwell under the shadow thereof. 
    33: And with many such parables, he spoke to them the word, according as they were able to hear. 
    34: And without parable he did not speak unto them; but apart, he explained all things to his disciples. 
    35: And he saith to them that day, when evening was come: Let us pass over to the other side.
    36: And sending away the multitude, they take him even as he was in the ship: and there were other ships with him. 
    37: And there arose a great storm of wind, and the waves beat into the ship, so that the ship was filled. 
    38: And he was in the hinder part of the ship, sleeping upon a pillow; and they awake him, and say to him: Master, doth it not concern thee that we perish? 
    39: And rising up, he rebuked the wind, and said to the sea: Peace, be still. And the wind ceased: and there was made a great calm. 
    40: And he said to them: Why are you fearful? have you not faith yet? And they feared exceedingly: and they said one to another: Who is this (thinkest thou) that both wind and sea obey him?

End of day 291.