Day 81:

Reading 1-Kings, chapters ['21', '22']:

  Chapter 21.

    1: And after these things, Naboth the Jezrahelite, who was in Jezrahel, had at that time a vineyard near the palace of Achab king of Samaria. 
    2: And Achab spoke to Naboth, saying: Give me thy vineyard, that I may make me a garden of herbs, because it is nigh, and adjoining to my house, and I will give thee for it a better vineyard: or if thou think it more convenient for thee, I will give thee the worth of it in money. 
    3: Naboth answered him: The Lord be merciful to me, and not let me give thee the inheritance of my fathers. 
    4: And Achab came into his house angry and fretting, because of the word that Naboth the Jezrahelite had spoken to him, saying: I will not give thee the inheritance of my fathers. And casting himself upon his bed, he turned away his face to the wall, and would eat no bread. 
    5: And Jezabel his wife went in to him, and said to him: What is the matter that thy soul is so grieved? and why eatest thou no bread?
    6: And he answered her: I spoke to Naboth the Jezrahelite, and said to him: Give me thy vineyard, and take money for it: or if it please thee, I will give thee a better vineyard for it. And he said: I will not give thee my vineyard. 
    7: Then Jezabel his wife said to him: Thou art of great authority indeed, and governest well the kingdom of Israel. Arise, and eat bread, and be of good cheer, I will give thee the vineyard of Naboth the Jezrahelite. 
    8: So she wrote letter's in Achab's name, and sealed them with his ring, and sent them to the ancients, and the chief men that were in his city, and that dwelt with Naboth. 
    9: And this was the tenor of the letters: Proclaim a fast, and make Naboth sit among the chief of the people, 
    10: And suborn two men, sons of Belial against him, and let them bear false witness: that he hath blasphemed God and the king: and then carry him out, and stone him, and so let him die.
    11: And the men of his city, the ancients and nobles, that dwelt with him in the city, did as Jezabel had commanded them, and as it was written in the letters which she had sent to them: 
    12: They proclaimed a fast, and made Naboth sit among the chief of the people. 
    13: And bringing two men, sons of the devil, they made them sit against him: and they, like men of the devil, bore witness against him before the people, saying: Naboth hath blasphemed God and the king: wherefore they brought him forth without the city, and stoned him to death. 
    14: And they sent to Jezabel, saying: Naboth is stoned, and is dead. 
    15: And it came to pass when Jezabel heard that Naboth was stoned, and dead, that she said to Achab: Arise and take possession of the vineyard of Naboth the Jezrahelite, who would not agree with thee, and give it thee for money: for Naboth is not alive, but dead.
    16: And when Achab heard this, to wit, that Naboth was dead, he arose, and went down to the vineyard of Naboth the Jezrahelite, to take possession of it. 
    17: And the word of the Lord came to Elias the Thesbite, saying: 
    18: Arise, and go down to meet Achab king of Israel, who is in Samaria: behold he is going down to the vineyard of Naboth, to take possession of it: 
    19: And thou shalt speak to him, saying: Thus saith the Lord: Thou hast slain, moreover also thou hast taken possession. And after these words thou shalt add: Thus saith the Lord: In this place, wherein the dogs have licked the blood of Naboth, they shall lick thy blood also. 
    20: And Achab said to Elias: Hast thou found me thy enemy? He said: I have found thee, because thou art sold, to do evil in the sight of the Lord.
    21: Behold I will bring evil upon thee, and I will cut down thy posterity, and I will kill of Achab him that pisseth against the wall, and him that is shut up, and the last in Israel. 
    22: And I will make thy house like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nabat, and like the house of Baasa the son of Ahias: for what thou hast done, to provoke me to anger, and for making Israel to sin. 
    23: And of Jezabel also the Lord spoke, saying: The dogs shall eat Jezabel in the field of Jezrahel. 
    24: If Achab die in the city, the dogs shall eat him: but if he die in the field, the birds of the air shall eat him. 
    25: Now there was not such another as Achab, who was sold to do evil in the sight of the Lord: for his wife Jezabel set him on,
    26: And he became abominable, insomuch that he followed the idols which the Amorrhites had made, whom the Lord destroyed before the face of the children of Israel. 
    27: And when Achab had heard these words, he rent his garments, and put haircloth upon his flesh, and fasted and slept in sackcloth, and walked with his head cast down. 
    28: And the word of the Lord came to Elias the Thesbite, saying: 
    29: Hast thou not seen Achab humbled before me? therefore, because he hath humbled himself for my sake, I will not bring the evil in his days, but in his son's days will I bring the evil upon his house.

  Chapter 22.

    1: And there passed three years without war between Syria and Israel. 
    2: And in the third year, Josaphat king of Juda came down to the king of Israel. 
    3: (And the king of Israel said to his servants: Know ye not-that Ramoth Galaad is ours, and we neglect to take it out of the hand of the king of Syria?) 
    4: And he said to Josaphat: Wilt thou come with me to battle to Ramoth Galaad? 
    5: And Josaphat said to the king of Israel: As I am, so art thou: my people and thy people are one: and my horsemen, thy horsemen. And Josaphat said to the king of Israel: Inquire, I beseech thee, this day, the word of the Lord.
    6: Then the king of Israel assembled the prophets, about four hundred men, and he said to them: Shall I go to Ramoth Galaad to fight, or shall I forbear? They answered: Go up, and the Lord will deliver it into the hand of the king. 
    7: And Josaphat said: Is there not here some prophet of the Lord, that we may inquire by him? 
    8: And the king of Israel said to Josaphat: There is one man left, by whom we may inquire of the Lord: Micheas the son of Jemla; but I hate him, for he doth not prophesy good to me, but evil. And Josaphat said: Speak not so, O king. 
    9: Then the king of Israel called an eunuch, and said to him: Make haste, and bring hither Micheas the son of Jemla. 
    10: Then the king of Israel, and Josaphat king of Juda, sat each on his throne clothed with royal robes, in a court by the entrance of the gate of Samaria, and all the prophets prophesied before them.
    11: And Sedecias the son of Chanaana made himself horns of iron, and said: Thus saith the Lord: With these shalt thou push Syria, till thou destroy it. 
    12: And all the prophets prophesied in like manner, saying: Go up to Ramoth Galaad, and prosper, for the Lord will deliver it into the king's hands. 
    13: And the messenger, that went to call Micheas, spoke to him, saying: Behold the words of the prophets with one mouth declare good things to the king: let thy word therefore be like to theirs, and speak that which is good. 
    14: But Micheas said to him: As the Lord liveth, whatsoever the Lord shall say to me, that will I speak. 
    15: So he came to the king, and the king said to him: Micheas, shall we go to Ramoth Galaad to battle, or shall we forbear? He answered him: Go up, and prosper, and the Lord shall deliver it into the king's hands.
    16: But the king said to him: I adjure thee again and again, that thou tell me nothing but that which is true in the name of the Lord. 
    17: And he said: I saw all Israel scattered upon the hills, like sheep that have no shepherd: and the Lord said: These have no master: let every man of them return to his house in peace. 
    18: (Then the king of Israel said to Josaphat: Did I not tell thee, that he prophesieth no good to me, but always evil?) 
    19: And he added and said: Hear thou therefore the word of the Lord: I saw the Lord sitting on his throne, and all the army of heaven standing by him on the right hand and on the left: 
    20: And the Lord said: Who shall deceive Achab king of Israel, that he may go up, and fall at Ramoth Galaad? And one spoke words of this manner, and another otherwise.
    21: And there came forth a spirit, and stood before the Lord, and said: I will deceive him. And the Lord said to him: By what means? 
    22: And he said: I will go forth, and be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets. And the Lord said: Thou shalt deceive him, and shalt prevail: a go forth, and do so. 
    23: Now therefore behold the Lord hath given a lying spirit in the mouth of all thy prophets that are here, and the Lord hath spoken evil against thee. 
    24: And Sedecias the son of Chanaana came, and struck Micheas on the cheek, and said: Hath then the spirit of the Lord left me, and spoken to thee? 
    25: And Micheas said: Thou shalt see in the day when thou shalt go into a chamber within a chamber to hide thyself.
    26: And the king of Israel said: Take Micheas, and let him abide with Ammon the governor of the city, and with Joas the son of Amalech. 
    27: And tell them: Thus saith the king: Put this man in prison, and feed him with bread of affliction, and water of distress, till I return in peace. 
    28: And Micheas said: If thou return in peace, the Lord hath not spoken by me. And he said: Hear, all ye people. 
    29: So the king of Israel, and Josaphat king of Juda went up to Ramoth Galaad. 
    30: And the king of Israel said to Josaphat: Take armour, and go into the battle, and put on thy own garments. But the king of Israel changed his dress, and went into the battle.
    31: And the king of Syria had commanded the two and thirty captains of the chariots, saying: You shall not fight against any, small or great, but against the king of Israel only. 
    32: So when the captains of the chariots saw Josaphat, they suspected that he was the king of Israel, and making a violent assault they fought against him: and Josaphat cried out. 
    33: And the captains of the chariots perceived that he was not the king of and they turned away from him. 
    34: And a certain man bent his bow, shooting at a venture, and chanced to strike the king of Israel between the lungs and the stomach. But he said to the driver of his chariot: Turn thy hand, and carry me out of the army, for I am grievously wounded. 
    35: And the battle was fought that day, and the king of Israel stood in his chariot against the Syrians, and he died in the evening: and the blood ran out of the wound into the midst of the chariot.
    36: And the herald proclaimed through all the army before the sun set, saying: Let every man return to his own city, and to his own country. 
    37: And the king died, and was carried into Samaria: and they buried the king in Samaria. 
    38: And they washed his chariot in the pool of Samaria, and the dogs licked up his blood, and they washed the reins, according to the word of the Lord which he had spoken. 
    39: But the rest of the acts of Achab, and all that he did, and the house of ivory that he made, and all the cities that he built, are they not written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Israel? 
    40: So Achab slept with his fathers, and Ochozias his son reigned in his stead.
    41: But Josaphat the son of Asa began to reign over Juda in the fourth year of Achab king of Israel. 
    42: He was five and thirty years old when he began to reign, and he reigned five and twenty years in Jerusalem: the name of his mother was Azuba the daughter of Salai. 
    43: And he walked in all the way of Asa his father, and he declined not from it: and he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord. 
    44: Nevertheless he took not away the high places: for as Set the people offered sacrifices and burnt incense in the high places. 
    45: And Josaphat had peace with the king of Israel.
    46: But the rest of the acts of Josaphat, and his works which he did, and his battles, are they not written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Juda? 
    47: And the remnant also of the effeminate, who remained in the days of Asa his father, he took out of the land. 
    48: And there was then no king appointed in Edom. 
    49: But king Josaphat made navies on the sea, to sail into Ophir for gold: but they could not go, for the ships were broken in Asiongaber. 
    50: Then Ochozias the ton of Achab said to Josaphat: Let my servants go with thy servants in the ships. And Josaphat would not.
    51: And Josaphat slept with his fathers. and was buried with them in the city of David his father: and Joram his son reigned in his stead. 
    52: And Ochozias the son of Achab began to reign over Israel in Samaria, in the seventeenth year of Josaphat king of Juda, and he reigned over Israel two years, 
    53: And he did evil in the sight of the Lord, and walked in the way of his father and his mother, and in the way of Jeroboam the son of Nabat, who made Israel to sin. 
    54: He served also Baal, and worshipped him, and provoked the Lord the God of Israel, according to all that his father had done.

End of day 81.