Day 315:

Reading Romans, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: Being justified therefore by faith, let us have peace with God, through our Lord Jesus Christ: 
    2: By whom also we have access through faith into this grace, wherein we stand, and glory in the hope of the glory of the sons of God. 
    3: And not only so; but we glory also in tribulations, knowing that tribulation worketh patience; 
    4: And patience trial; and trial hope; 
    5: And hope confoundeth not: because the charity of God is poured forth in our hearts, by the Holy Ghost, who is given to us.
    6: For why did Christ, when as yet we were weak, according to the time, die for the ungodly? 
    7: For scarce for a just man will one die; yet perhaps for a good man some one would dare to die. 
    8: But God commendeth his charity towards us; because when as yet we were sinners, according to the time, 
    9: Christ died for us; much more therefore, being now justified by his blood, shall we be saved from wrath through him. 
    10: For if, when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son; much more, being reconciled, shall we be saved by his life.
    11: And not only so; but also we glory in God, through our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom we have now received reconciliation. 
    12: Wherefore as by one man sin entered into this world, and by sin death; and so death passed upon all men, in whom all have sinned. 
    13: For until the law sin was in the world; but sin was not imputed, when the law was not. 
    14: But death reigned from Adam unto Moses, even over them also who have not sinned after the similitude of the transgression of Adam, who is a figure of him who was to come. 
    15: But not as the offence, so also the gift. For if by the offence of one, many died; much more the grace of God, and the gift, by the grace of one man, Jesus Christ, hath abounded unto many.
    16: And not as it was by one sin, so also is the gift. For judgment indeed was by one unto condemnation; but grace is of many offences, unto justification. 
    17: For if by one man's offence death reigned through one; much more they who receive abundance of grace, and of the gift, and of justice, shall reign in life through one, Jesus Christ. 
    18: Therefore, as by the offence of one, unto all men to condemnation; so also by the justice of one, unto all men to justification of life. 
    19: For as by the disobedience of one man, many were made sinners; so also by the obedience of one, many shall be made just. 
    20: Now the law entered in, that sin might abound. And where sin abounded, grace did more abound.
    21: That as sin hath reigned to death; so also grace might reign by justice unto life everlasting, through Jesus Christ our Lord.

  Chapter 6.

    1: What shall we say, then? shall we continue in sin, that grace may abound? 
    2: God forbid. For we that are dead to sin, how shall we live any longer therein? 
    3: Know you not that all we, who are baptized in Christ Jesus, are baptized in his death? 
    4: For we are buried together with him by baptism into death; that as Christ is risen from the dead by the glory of the Father, so we also may walk in newness of life. 
    5: For if we have been planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall be also in the likeness of his resurrection.
    6: Knowing this, that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin may be destroyed, to the end that we may serve sin no longer. 
    7: For he that is dead is justified from sin. 
    8: Now if we be dead with Christ, we believe that we shall live also together with Christ: 
    9: Knowing that Christ rising again from the dead, dieth now no more, death shall no more have dominion over him. 
    10: For in that he died to sin, he died once; but in that he liveth, he liveth unto God:
    11: So do you also reckon, that you are dead to sin, but alive unto God, in Christ Jesus our Lord. 
    12: Let no sin therefore reign in your mortal body, so as to obey the lusts thereof. 
    13: Neither yield ye your members as instruments of iniquity unto sin; but present yourselves to God, as those that are alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of justice unto God. 
    14: For sin shall not have dominion over you; for you are not under the law, but under grace. 
    15: What then? Shall we sin, because we are not under the law, but under grace? God forbid.
    16: Know you not, that to whom you yield yourselves servants to obey, his servants you are whom you obey, whether it be of sin unto death, or of obedience unto justice. 
    17: But thanks be to God, that you were the servants of sin, but have obeyed from the heart, unto that form of doctrine, into which you have been delivered. 
    18: Being then freed from sin, we have been made servants of justice. 
    19: I speak an human thing, because of the infirmity of your flesh. For as you have yielded your members to serve uncleanness and iniquity, unto iniquity; so now yield your members to serve justice, unto sanctification. 
    20: For when you were the servants of sin, you were free men to justice.
    21: What fruit therefore had you then in those things, of which you are now ashamed? For the end of them is death. 
    22: But now being made free from sin, and become servants to God, you have your fruit unto sanctification, and the end life everlasting. 
    23: For the wages of sin is death. But the grace of God, life everlasting, in Christ Jesus our Lord.

  Chapter 7.

    1: Know you not, brethren, (for I speak to them that know the law,) that the law hath dominion over a man, as long as it liveth? 
    2: For the woman that hath an husband, whilst her husband liveth is bound to the law. But if her husband be dead, she is loosed from the law of her husband. 
    3: Therefore, whilst her husband liveth, she shall be called an adulteress, if she be with another man: but if her husband be dead, she is delivered from the law of her husband; so that she is not an adulteress, if she be with another man. 
    4: Therefore, my brethren, you also are become dead to the law, by the body of Christ; that you may belong to another, who is risen again from the dead, that we may bring forth fruit to God. 
    5: For when we were in the flesh, the passions of sins, which were by the law, did work in our members, to bring forth fruit unto death.
    6: But now we are loosed from the law of death, wherein we were detained; so that we should serve in newness of spirit, and not in the oldness of the letter. 
    7: What shall we say, then? Is the law sin? God forbid. But I do not know sin, but by the law; for I had not known concupiscence, if the law did not say: Thou shalt not covet. 
    8: But sin taking occasion by the commandment, wrought in me all manner of concupiscence. For without the law sin was dead. 
    9: And I lived some time without the law. But when the commandment came, sin revived, 
    10: And I died. And the commandment that was ordained to life, the same was found to be unto death to me.
    11: For sin, taking occasion by the commandment, seduced me, and by it killed me. 
    12: Wherefore the law indeed is holy, and the commandment holy, and just, and good. 
    13: Was that then which is good, made death unto me? God forbid. But sin, that it may appear sin, by that which is good, wrought death in me; that sin, by the commandment, might become sinful above measure. 
    14: For we know that the law is spiritual; but I am carnal, sold under sin. 
    15: For that which I work, I understand not. For I do not that good which I will; but the evil which I hate, that I do.
    16: If then I do that which I will not, I consent to the law, that it is good. 
    17: Now then it is no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me. 
    18: For I know that there dwelleth not in me, that is to say, in my flesh, that which is good. For to will, is present with me; but to accomplish that which is good, I find not. 
    19: For the good which I will, I do not; but the evil which I will not, that I do. 
    20: Now if I do that which I will not, it is no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me.
    21: I find then a law, that when I have a will to do good, evil is present with me. 
    22: For I am delighted with the law of God, according to the inward man: 
    23: But I see another law in my members, fighting against the law of my mind, and captivating me in the law of sin, that is in my members. 
    24: Unhappy man that I am, who shall deliver me from the body of this death? 
    25: The grace of God, by Jesus Christ our Lord. Therefore, I myself, with the mind serve the law of God; but with the flesh, the law of sin.

  Chapter 8.

    1: There is now therefore no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus, who walk not according to the flesh. 
    2: For the law of the spirit of life, in Christ Jesus, hath delivered me from the law of sin and of death. 
    3: For what the law could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh; God sending his own Son, in the likeness of sinful flesh and of sin, hath condemned sin in the flesh; 
    4: That the justification of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not according to the flesh, but according to the spirit. 
    5: For they that are according to the flesh, mind the things that are of the flesh; but they that are according to the spirit, mind the things that are of the spirit.
    6: For the wisdom of the flesh is death; but the wisdom of the spirit is life and peace. 
    7: Because the wisdom of the flesh is an enemy to God; for it is not subject to the law of God, neither can it be. 
    8: And they who are in the flesh, cannot please God. 
    9: But you are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if so be that the Spirit of God dwell in you. Now if any man have not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of his. 
    10: And if Christ be in you, the body indeed is dead, because of sin; but the spirit liveth, because of justification.
    11: And if the Spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead, dwell in you; he that raised up Jesus Christ from the dead, shall quicken also your mortal bodies, because of his Spirit that dwelleth in you. 
    12: Therefore, brethren, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh. 
    13: For if you live according to the flesh, you shall die: but if by the Spirit you mortify the deeds of the flesh, you shall live. 
    14: For whosoever are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. 
    15: For you have not received the spirit of bondage again in fear; but you have received the spirit of adoption of sons, whereby we cry: Abba (Father).
    16: For the Spirit himself giveth testimony to our spirit, that we are the sons of God. 
    17: And if sons, heirs also; heirs indeed of God, and joint heirs with Christ: yet so, if we suffer with him, that we may be also glorified with him. 
    18: For I reckon that the sufferings of this time are not worthy to be compared with the glory to come, that shall be revealed in us. 
    19: For the expectation of the creature waiteth for the revelation of the sons of God. 
    20: For the creature was made subject to vanity, not willingly, but by reason of him that made it subject, in hope:
    21: Because the creature also itself shall be delivered from the servitude of corruption, into the liberty of the glory of the children of God. 
    22: For we know that every creature groaneth and travaileth in pain, even till now. 
    23: And not only it, but ourselves also, who have the firstfruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves, waiting for the adoption of the sons of God, the redemption of our body. 
    24: For we are saved by hope. But hope that is seen, is not hope. For what a man seeth, why doth he hope for? 
    25: But if we hope for that which we see not, we wait for it with patience.
    26: Likewise the Spirit also helpeth our infirmity. For we know not what we should pray for as we ought; but the Spirit himself asketh for us with unspeakable groanings. 
    27: And he that searcheth the hearts, knoweth what the Spirit desireth; because he asketh for the saints according to God. 
    28: And we know that to them that love God, all things work together unto good, to such as, according to his purpose, are called to be saints. 
    29: For whom he foreknew, he also predestinated to be made conformable to the image of his Son; that he might be the firstborn amongst many brethren. 
    30: And whom he predestinated, them he also called. And whom he called, them he also justified. And whom he justified, them he also glorified.
    31: What shall we then say to these things? If God be for us, who is against us? 
    32: He that spared not even his own Son, but delivered him up for us all, how hath he not also, with him, given us all things? 
    33: Who shall accuse against the elect of God? God that justifieth. 
    34: Who is he that shall condemn? Christ Jesus that died, yea that is risen also again; who is at the right hand of God, who also maketh intercession for us. 
    35: Who then shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation? or distress? or famine? or nakedness? or danger? or persecution? or the sword?
    36: (As it is written: For thy sake we are put to death all the day long. We are accounted as sheep for the slaughter.) 
    37: But in all these things we overcome, because of him that hath loved us. 
    38: For I am sure that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor might, 
    39: Nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.

End of day 315.