Day 305:

Reading John, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: These things Jesus spoke, and lifting up his eyes to heaven, he said: Father, the hour is come, glorify thy Son, that thy Son may glorify thee. 
    2: As thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he may give eternal life to all whom thou hast given him. 
    3: Now this is eternal life: That they may know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. 
    4: I have glorified thee on the earth; I have finished the work which thou gavest me to do. 
    5: And now glorify thou me, O Father, with thyself, with the glory which I had, before the world was, with thee.
    6: I have manifested thy name to the men whom thou hast given me out of the world. Thine they were, and to me thou gavest them; and they have kept thy word. 
    7: Now they have known, that all things which thou hast given me, are from thee: 
    8: Because the words which thou gavest me, I have given to them; and they have received them, and have known in very deed that I came out from thee, and they have believed that thou didst send me. 
    9: I pray for them: I pray not for the world, but for them whom thou hast given me: because they are thine: 
    10: And all my things are thine, and thine are mine; and I am glorified in them.
    11: And now I am not in the world, and these are in the world, and I come to thee. Holy Father, keep them in thy name whom thou has given me; that they may be one, as we also are. 
    12: While I was with them, I kept them in thy name. Those whom thou gavest me have I kept; and none of them is lost, but the son of perdition, that the scripture may be fulfilled. 
    13: And now I come to thee; and these things I speak in the world, that they may have my joy filled in themselves. 
    14: I have given them thy word, and the world hath hated them, because they are not of the world; as I also am not of the world. 
    15: I pray not that thou shouldst take them out of the world, but that thou shouldst keep them from evil.
    16: They are not of the world, as I also am not of the world. 
    17: Sanctify them in truth. Thy word is truth. 
    18: As thou hast sent me into the world, I also have sent them into the world. 
    19: And for them do I sanctify myself, that they also may be sanctified in truth. 
    20: And not for them only do I pray, but for them also who through their word shall believe in me;
    21: That they all may be one, as thou, Father, in me, and I in thee; that they also may be one in us; that the world may believe that thou hast sent me. 
    22: And the glory which thou hast given me, I have given to them; that they may be one, as we also are one: 
    23: I in them, and thou in me; that they may be made perfect in one: and the world may know that thou hast sent me, and hast loved them, as thou hast also loved me. 
    24: Father, I will that where I am, they also whom thou hast given me may be with me; that they may see my glory which thou hast given me, because thou hast loved me before the creation of the world. 
    25: Just Father, the world hath not known thee; but I have known thee: and these have known that thou hast sent me.
    26: And I have made known thy name to them, and will make it known; that the love wherewith thou hast loved me, may be in them, and I in them.

  Chapter 18.

    1: When Jesus had said these things, he went forth with his disciples over the brook Cedron, where there was a garden, into which he entered with his disciples. 
    2: And Judas also, who betrayed him, knew the place; because Jesus had often resorted thither together with his disciples. 
    3: Judas therefore having received a band of soldiers and servants from the chief priests and the Pharisees, cometh thither with lanterns and torches and weapons. 
    4: Jesus therefore, knowing all things that should come upon him, went forth, and said to them: Whom seek ye? 
    5: They answered him: Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus saith to them: I am he. And Judas also, who betrayed him, stood with them.
    6: As soon therefore as he had said to them: I am he; they went backward, and fell to the ground. 
    7: Again therefore he asked them: Whom seek ye? And they said, Jesus of Nazareth. 
    8: Jesus answered, I have told you that I am he. If therefore you seek me, let these go their way. 
    9: That the word might be fulfilled which he said: Of them whom thou hast given me, I have not lost any one. 
    10: Then Simon Peter, having a sword, drew it, and struck the servant of the high priest, and cut off his right ear. And the name of the servant was Malchus.
    11: Jesus therefore said to Peter: Put up thy sword into the scabbard. The chalice which my Father hath given me, shall I not drink it? 
    12: Then the band and the tribune, and the servants of the Jews, took Jesus, and bound him: 
    13: And they led him away to Annas first, for he was father in law to Caiphas, who was the high priest of that year. 
    14: Now Caiphas was he who had given the counsel to the Jews: That it was expedient that one man should die for the people. 
    15: And Simon Peter followed Jesus, and so did another disciple. And that disciple was known to the high priest, and went in with Jesus into the court of the high priest.
    16: But Peter stood at the door without. The other disciple therefore, who was known to the high priest, went out, and spoke to the portress, and brought in Peter. 
    17: The maid therefore that was portress, saith to Peter: Art not thou also one of this man's disciples? He saith: I am not. 
    18: Now the servants and ministers stood at a fire of coals, because it was cold, and warmed themselves. And with them was Peter also, standing, and warming himself. 
    19: The high priest therefore asked Jesus of his disciples, and of his doctrine. 
    20: Jesus answered him: I have spoken openly to the world: I have always taught in the synagogue, and in the temple, whither all the Jews resort; and in secret I have spoken nothing.
    21: Why asketh thou me? ask them who have heard what I have spoken unto them: behold they know what things I have said. 
    22: And when he had said these things, one of the servants standing by, gave Jesus a blow, saying: Answerest thou the high priest so? 
    23: Jesus answered him: If I have spoken evil, give testimony of the evil; but if well, why strikest thou me? 
    24: And Annas sent him bound to Caiphas the high priest. 
    25: And Simon Peter was standing, and warming himself. They said therefore to him: Art not thou also one of his disciples? He denied it, and said: I am not.
    26: One of the servants of the high priest (a kinsman to him whose ear Peter cut off) saith to him: Did I not see thee in the garden with him? 
    27: Again therefore Peter denied; and immediately the cock crew. 
    28: Then they led Jesus from Caiphas to the governor's hall. And it was morning; and they went not into the hall, that they might not be defiled, but that they might eat the pasch. 
    29: Pilate therefore went out to them, and said: What accusation bring you against this man? 
    30: They answered, and said to him: If he were not a malefactor, we would not have delivered him up to thee.
    31: Pilate therefore said to them: Take him you, and judge him according to your law. The Jews therefore said to him: It is not lawful for us to put any man to death; 
    32: That the word of Jesus might be fulfilled, which he said, signifying what death he should die. 
    33: Pilate therefore went into the hall again, and called Jesus, and said to him: Art thou the king of the Jews? 
    34: Jesus answered: Sayest thou this thing of thyself, or have others told it thee of me? 
    35: Pilate answered: Am I a Jew? Thy own nation, and the chief priests, have delivered thee up to me: what hast thou done?
    36: Jesus answered: My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, my servants would certainly strive that I should not be delivered to the Jews: but now my kingdom is not from hence. 
    37: Pilate therefore said to him: Art thou a king then? Jesus answered: Thou sayest that I am a king. For this was I born, and for this came I into the world; that I should give testimony to the truth. Every one that is of the truth, heareth my voice. 
    38: Pilate saith to him: What is truth? And when he said this, he went out again to the Jews, and saith to them: I find no cause in him. 
    39: But you have a custom that I should release one unto you at the pasch: will you, therefore, that I release unto you the king of the Jews? 
    40: Then cried they all again, saying: Not this man, but Barabbas. Now Barabbas was a robber.

  Chapter 19.

    1: Then therefore, Pilate took Jesus, and scourged him. 
    2: And the soldiers platting a crown of thorns, put it upon his head; and they put on him a purple garment. 
    3: And they came to him, and said: Hail, king of the Jews; and they gave him blows. 
    4: Pilate therefore went forth again, and saith to them: Behold, I bring him forth unto you, that you may know that I find no cause in him. 
    5: (Jesus therefore came forth, bearing the crown of thorns and the purple garment.) And he saith to them: Behold the Man.
    6: When the chief priests, therefore, and the servants, had seen him, they cried out, saying: Crucify him, crucify him. Pilate saith to them: Take him you, and crucify him: for I find no cause in him. 
    7: The Jews answered him: We have a law; and according to the law he ought to die, because he made himself the Son of God. 
    8: When Pilate therefore had heard this saying, he feared the more. 
    9: And he entered into the hall again, and he said to Jesus: Whence art thou? But Jesus gave him no answer. 
    10: Pilate therefore saith to him: Speakest thou not to me? knowest thou not that I have power to crucify thee, and I have power to release thee?
    11: Jesus answered: Thou shouldst not have any power against me, unless it were given thee from above. Therefore, he that hath delivered me to thee, hath the greater sin. 
    12: And from henceforth Pilate sought to release him. But the Jews cried out, saying: If thou release this man, thou art not Caesar's friend. For whosoever maketh himself a king, speaketh against Caesar. 
    13: Now when Pilate had heard these words, he brought Jesus forth, and sat down in the judgment seat, in the place that is called Lithostrotos, and in Hebrew Gabbatha. 
    14: And it was the parasceve of the pasch, about the sixth hour, and he saith to the Jews: Behold your king. 
    15: But they cried out: Away with him; away with him; crucify him. Pilate saith to them: Shall I crucify your king? The chief priests answered: We have no king but Caesar.
    16: Then therefore he delivered him to them to be crucified. And they took Jesus, and led him forth. 
    17: And bearing his own cross, he went forth to that place which is called Calvary, but in Hebrew Golgotha. 
    18: Where they crucified him, and with him two others, one on each side, and Jesus in the midst. 
    19: And Pilate wrote a title also, and he put it upon the cross. And the writing was: JESUS OF NAZARETH, THE KING OF THE JEWS. 
    20: This title therefore many of the Jews did read: because the place where Jesus was crucified was nigh to the city: and it was written in Hebrew, in Greek, and in Latin.
    21: Then the chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate: Write not, The King of the Jews; but that he said, I am the King of the Jews. 
    22: Pilate answered: What I have written, I have written. 
    23: The soldiers therefore, when they had crucified him, took his garments, (and they made four parts, to every soldier a part,) and also his coat. Now the coat was without seam, woven from the top throughout. 
    24: They said then one to another: Let us not cut it, but let us cast lots for it, whose it shall be; that the scripture might be fulfilled, saying: They have parted my garments among them, and upon my vesture they have cast lots. And the soldiers indeed did these things. 
    25: Now there stood by the cross of Jesus, his mother, and his mother's sister, Mary of Cleophas, and Mary Magdalen.
    26: When Jesus therefore had seen his mother and the disciple standing whom he loved, he saith to his mother: Woman, behold thy son. 
    27: After that, he saith to the disciple: Behold thy mother. And from that hour, the disciple took her to his own. 
    28: Afterwards, Jesus knowing that all things were now accomplished, that the scripture might be fulfilled, said: I thirst. 
    29: Now there was a vessel set there full of vinegar. And they, putting a sponge full of vinegar and hyssop, put it to his mouth. 
    30: Jesus therefore, when he had taken the vinegar, said: It is consummated. And bowing his head, he gave up the ghost.
    31: Then the Jews, (because it was the parasceve,) that the bodies might not remain on the cross on the sabbath day, (for that was a great sabbath day,) besought Pilate that their legs might be broken, and that they might be taken away. 
    32: The soldiers therefore came; and they broke the legs of the first, and of the other that was crucified with him. 
    33: But after they were come to Jesus, when they saw that he was already dead, they did not break his legs. 
    34: But one of the soldiers with a spear opened his side, and immediately there came out blood and water. 
    35: And he that saw it, hath given testimony, and his testimony is true. And he knoweth that he saith true; that you also may believe.
    36: For these things were done, that the scripture might be fulfilled: You shall not break a bone of him. 
    37: And again another scripture saith: They shall look on him whom they pierced. 
    38: And after these things, Joseph of Arimathea (because he was a disciple of Jesus, but secretly for fear of the Jews) besought Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus. And Pilate gave leave. He came therefore, and took the body of Jesus. 
    39: And Nicodemus also came, (he who at the first came to Jesus by night,) bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about an hundred pound weight. 
    40: They took therefore the body of Jesus, and bound it in linen cloths, with the spices, as the manner of the Jews is to bury.
    41: Now there was in the place where he was crucified, a garden; and in the garden a new sepulchre, wherein no man yet had been laid. 
    42: There, therefore, because of the parasceve of the Jews, they laid Jesus, because the sepulchre was nigh at hand.

  Chapter 20.

    1: And on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalen cometh early, when it was yet dark, unto the sepulchre; and she saw the stone taken away from the sepulchre. 
    2: She ran, therefore, and cometh to Simon Peter, and to the other disciple whom Jesus loved, and saith to them: They have taken away the Lord out of the sepulchre, and we know not where they have laid him. 
    3: Peter therefore went out, and that other disciple, and they came to the sepulchre. 
    4: And they both ran together, and that other disciple did outrun Peter, and came first to the sepulchre. 
    5: And when he stooped down, he saw the linen cloths lying; but yet he went not in.
    6: Then cometh Simon Peter, following him, and went into the sepulchre, and saw the linen cloths lying, 
    7: And the napkin that had been about his head, not lying with the linen cloths, but apart, wrapped up into one place. 
    8: Then that other disciple also went in, who came first to the sepulchre: and he saw, and believed. 
    9: For as yet they knew not the scripture, that he must rise again from the dead. 
    10: The disciples therefore departed again to their home.
    11: But Mary stood at the sepulchre without, weeping. Now as she was weeping, she stooped down, and looked into the sepulchre, 
    12: And she saw two angels in white, sitting, one at the head, and one at the feet, where the body of Jesus had been laid. 
    13: They say to her: Woman, why weepest thou? She saith to them: Because they have taken away my Lord; and I know not where they have laid him. 
    14: When she had thus said, she turned herself back, and saw Jesus standing; and she knew not that it was Jesus. 
    15: Jesus saith to her: Woman, why weepest thou? whom seekest thou? She, thinking it was the gardener, saith to him: Sir, if thou hast taken him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away.
    16: Jesus saith to her: Mary. She turning, saith to him: Rabboni (which is to say, Master). 
    17: Jesus saith to her: Do not touch me, for I am not yet ascended to my Father. But go to my brethren, and say to them: I ascend to my Father and to your Father, to my God and your God. 
    18: Mary Magdalen cometh, and telleth the disciples: I have seen the Lord, and these things he said to me. 
    19: Now when it was late that same day, the first of the week, and the doors were shut, where the disciples were gathered together, for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in the midst, and said to them: Peace be to you. 
    20: And when he had said this, he shewed them his hands and his side. The disciples therefore were glad, when they saw the Lord.
    21: He said therefore to them again: Peace be to you. As the Father hath sent me, I also send you. 
    22: When he had said this, he breathed on them; and he said to them: Receive ye the Holy Ghost. 
    23: Whose sins you shall forgive, they are forgiven them; and whose sins you shall retain, they are retained. 
    24: Now Thomas, one of the twelve, who is called Didymus, was not with them when Jesus came. 
    25: The other disciples therefore said to him: We have seen the Lord. But he said to them: Except I shall see in his hands the print of the nails, and put my finger into the place of the nails, and put my hand into his side, I will not believe.
    26: And after eight days again his disciples were within, and Thomas with them. Jesus cometh, the doors being shut, and stood in the midst, and said: Peace be to you. 
    27: Then he saith to Thomas: Put in thy finger hither, and see my hands; and bring hither thy hand, and put it into my side; and be not faithless, but believing. 
    28: Thomas answered, and said to him: My Lord, and my God. 
    29: Jesus saith to him: Because thou hast seen me, Thomas, thou hast believed: blessed are they that have not seen, and have believed. 
    30: Many other signs also did Jesus in the sight of his disciples, which are not written in this book.
    31: But these are written, that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God: and that believing, you may have life in his name.

End of day 305.