Day 110:

Reading Nehemiah, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: Now there was a great cry of the people, and of their wives against their brethren the Jews. 
    2: And there were some that said: Our sons and our daughters are very many: Yet us take up corn for the price of them, and let us eat and live. 
    3: And there were some that said: Let us mortgage our lands, and our vineyards, and our houses, and let us take corn because of the famine. 
    4: And others said: Let us borrow money for the king's tribute, and let us give up our fields and vineyards: 
    5: And now our flesh is as the flesh of our brethren: and our children as their children. Behold we bring into bondage our sons and our daughters, and some of our daughters are bondwomen already, neither have we wherewith to redeem them, and our fields and our vineyards other men possess.
    6: And I was exceedingly angry when I heard their cry according to these words. 
    7: And my heart thought with myself: and I rebuked the nobles and magistrates, and said to them: Do you every one exact usury of your brethren? And I gathered together a great assembly against them, 
    8: And I said to them: We, as you know, have redeemed according to our ability our brethren the Jews, that were sold to the Gentiles: and will you then sell your brethren, for us to redeem them? And they held their peace, and found not what to answer. 
    9: And I said to them: The thing you do is not good: why walk you not in the fear of our God, that we be not exposed to the reproaches of the Gentiles our enemies? 
    10: Both I and my brethren, and my servants, have lent money and corn to many: let us all agree not to call for it again; let us forgive the debt that is owing to us.
    11: Restore ye to them this day their fields, and their vineyards, and their oliveyards, and their houses: and the hundredth part of the money, and of the corn, the wine, and the oil, which you mere wont to exact of them, give it rather for them. 
    12: And they said: We will restore, and we will require nothing of them: and we will do as thou sayest. And I called the priests and took an oath of them, to do according to what I had said. 
    13: Moreover I shook my lap, and said: So may God shake every man that shall not accomplish this word, out of his house, and out of his labours, thus may he be shaken out, and become empty. And all the multitude said: Amen. And they praised God. And the people did according to what was said. 
    14: And from the day, in which the king commanded me to be governor in the land of Juda, from the twentieth year even to the two and thirtieth year of Artaxerxes the king, for twelve years, I and my brethren did not eat the yearly allowance that was due to the governors. 
    15: But the former governors that had been before me, were chargeable to the people, and took of them in bread, and wine, and in money every day forty sides: and their officers also oppressed the people. But I did not so for the fear of God.
    16: Moreover I built in the work of the wall, and I bought no land, and all my servants were gathered together to the work. 
    17: The Jews also and the magistrates to the number of one hundred and fifty men, were at my table, besides them that came to us from among the nations that were round about us. 
    18: And there was prepared for me day by day one ox, and six choice rams, besides fowls, and once in ten days I gave store of divers wines, and many other things: yet I did not require my yearly allowance as governor: for the people were very much impoverished. 
    19: Remember me, O my God, for good according to all that I have done for this people.

  Chapter 6.

    1: And it came to pass, when Sanaballat, and Tobias, and Gossem the Arabian, and the rest of our enemies, heard that I had built the wall, and that there was no breach left in it, (though at that time I had not set up the doors in the gates,) 
    2: Sanaballat and Gossem Rent to me, saying: Come, and let us make a league together in the villages, in the plain of Ono. But they thought to do me mischief. 
    3: And I sent messengers to them, saying: I am doing a great work, and I cannot come down, lest it be neglected whilst I come, and go down to you. 
    4: And they sent to me according to this word, four times: and I answered them after the same manner. 
    5: And Sanaballat sent his servant to me the fifth time according to the former word, and he had a letter in his hand written in this manner:
    6: It is reported amongst the Gentiles, and Gossem hath said it, that thou and the Jews think to rebel, and therefore thou buildest the wall, and hast a mind to set thyself king over them: for which end 
    7: Thou hast also set up prophets, to preach of thee at Jerusalem, saying: There is a king in Judea. The king will hear of these things: therefore come now, that we may take counsel together. 
    8: And I sent to them, saying: There is no such thing done as thou sayest: but thou feignest these things out of thy own heart. 
    9: For all these men thought to frighten us, thinking that our hands would cease from the work, and that we would leave off. Wherefore I strengthened my hands the more: 
    10: And I went into the house of Samaia the son of Delaia, the son of Metabeel privately. And he said: Let us consult together in the house of God in the midst of the temple: and let us shut the doors of the temple, for they will come to kill thee, and in the night they will come to slay thee.
    11: And I said: Should such a man as I flee? and who is there that being as I am, would go into the temple, to save his life? I will not go in. 
    12: And I understood that God had not sent him, but that he had spoken to me as if he had been prophesying, and Tobias, and Sanaballat had hired him. 
    13: For he had taken money, that I being afraid should do this thing, and sin, and they might have some evil to upbraid me withal. 
    14: Remember me, O Lord, for Tobias and Sanaballat, according to their works of this kind: and Noadias the prophet, and the rest of the prophets that would have put me in fear. 
    15: But the wall was finished the five and twentieth day of the month of Elul, in two and fifty days.
    16: And it came to pass when all our enemies heard of it, that all nations which were round about us, were afraid, and were cast down within themselves, for they perceived that this work was the work of God. 
    17: Moreover in those days many letters were sent by the principal men of the Jews to Tobias, and from Tobias there came letters to them. 
    18: For there were many in Judea sworn to him, because he was the son in law of Sechenias the son of Area, and Johanan his son had taken to wife the daughter of Mosollam the son of Barachias. 
    19: And they praised him also before me, and they related my words to him: And Tobias sent letters to put me in fear.

  Chapter 7.

    1: Now after the wall was built, and I had set up the doors, and numbered the porters and singing men, and Levites: 
    2: I commanded Hanani my brother, and Hananias ruler of the house of Jerusalem, (for he seemed as a sincere man, and one that feared God above the rest,) 
    3: And I said to them: Let not the gates of Jerusalem be opened till the sun be hot. And while they were yet standing by, the gates were shut, and barred: and I set watchmen of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, every one by their courses, and every man over against his house. 
    4: And the city was very wide and great, and the people few in the midst thereof, and the houses were not built. 
    5: But God had put in my heart, and I assembled the princes and magistrates, and common people, to number them: and I found a book of the number of them who came up at first, and therein it was found written:
    6: These are the children of the province, who came up from the captivity of them that had been carried away, whom Nabuchodonosor the king of Babylon had carried away, and who returned into Judea, every one into his own city. 
    7: Who came with Zorobabel, Josue, Nehemias, Azarias, Raamias, Nahamani, Mardochai, Belsam, Mespharath, Begoia, Nahum, Baana. The number of the men of the people of Israel: 
    8: The children of Pharos, two thousand one hundred seventy-two. 
    9: The children of Sephatia, three hundred seventy-two. 
    10: The children of Area, six hundred fifty-two.
    11: The children of Phahath Moab of the children of Josue and Joab, two thousand eight hundred eighteen. 
    12: The children of Elam, one thousand two hundred fifty-four. 
    13: The children of Zethua, eight hundred forty-five. 
    14: The children of Zachai, seven hundred sixty. 
    15: The children of Bannui, six hundred forty-eight.
    16: The children of Bebai, six hundred twenty-eight. 
    17: The children of Azgad, two thousand three hundred twenty-two. 
    18: The children of Adonicam, six hundred sixty-seven. 
    19: The children of Beguai, two thousand sixty-seven. 
    20: The children of Adin, six hundred fifty-five.
    21: The children of Ater, children of Hezechias, ninety-eight. 
    22: The children of Hasem, three hundred twenty-eight. 
    23: The children of Besai, three hundred twenty-four. 
    24: The children of Hareph, a hundred and twelve. 
    25: The children of Gabaon, ninety-five.
    26: The children of Bethlehem, and Netupha, a hundred eighty-eight. 
    27: The men of Anathoth, a hundred twenty-eight. 
    28: The men of Bethazmoth, forty-two. 
    29: The men of Cariathiarim, Cephira, and Beroth, seven hundred forty-three. 
    30: The men of Rama and Geba, six hundred twenty-one.
    31: The men of Machmas, a hundred twenty-two. 
    32: The men of Bethel and Hai, a hundred twenty-three. 
    33: The men of the other Nebo, fifty-two. 
    34: The men of the other Elam, one thousand two hundred fifty-four. 
    35: The children of Harem, three hundred and twenty.
    36: The children of Jericho, three hundred forty-five. 
    37: The children of Led, of Hadid and One, seven hundred twenty-one. 
    38: The children of Senaa, three thousand nine hundred thirty. 
    39: The priests: the children of Idaia in the house of Josue, nine hundred and seventy-three. 
    40: The children of Emmer, one thousand fifty-two.
    41: The children of Phashur, one thousand two hundred forty-seven. 
    42: The children of Arem, one thousand and seventeen. The Levites: 
    43: The children of Josue and Cedmihel, the sons 
    44: Of Oduia, seventy-four. The singing men: 
    45: The children of Asaph, a hundred forty-eight.
    46: The porters: the children of Sellum, the children of Ater, the children of Telmon, the children of Accub, the children of Hatita, the children of Sobai: a hundred thirty-eight. 
    47: The Nathinites: the children of Soha, the children of Hasupha, the children of Tebbaoth, 
    48: The children of Ceros, the children of Siaa, the children of Phadon, the children of Lebana, the children of Hagaba, the children of Selmai, 
    49: The children of Hanan, the children of Geddel, the children of Gaher, 
    50: The children of Raaia, the children of Rasin, the children of Necoda,
    51: The children of Gezem, the children of Asa, the children of Phasea, 
    52: The children of Besai, the children of Munim, the children of Nephussim, 
    53: The children of Bacbuc, the children of Hacupha, the children of Harhur, 
    54: The children of Besloth, the children of Mahida, the children of Harsa, 
    55: The children of Bercos, the children of Sisara, the children of Thema,
    56: The children of Nasia, the children of Hatipha, 
    57: The children of the servants of Solomon, the children of Sothai, the children of Sophereth, the children of Pharida, 
    58: The children of Jahala, the children of Darcon, the children of Jeddel, 
    59: The children of Saphatia, the children of Hatil, the children of Phochereth, who was born of Sabaim, the son of Amon. 
    60: All the Nathinites, and the children of the servants of Solomon, three hundred ninety-two.
    61: And these are they that came up from Telmela, Thelharsa, Cherub, Addon, and Emmer: and could not shew the house of their fathers, nor their seed, whether they were of Israel. 
    62: The children of Dalaia, the children of Tobia, the children of Necoda, six hundred forty-two. 
    63: And of the priests, the children of Habia, the children of Accos, the children of Berzellai, who took a wife of the daughters of Berzellai the Galaadite, and he was called by their name. 
    64: These sought their writing in the record, and found it not: and they were cast out of the priesthood. 
    65: And Athersatha said to them, that they should not eat of the holies of holies, until there stood up a priest learned and skillful.
    66: All the multitude as it were one man, forty-two thousand three hundred sixty, 
    67: Beside their menservants and womenservants, who were seven thousand three hundred thirty-seven: and among them singing men, and singing women, two hundred forty-five. 
    68: Their horses, seven hundred thirty-six: their mules two hundred forty-five: 
    69: Their camels, four hundred thirty-five, their asses, six thousand seven hundred and twenty. 
    70: And some of the heads of the families gave unto the work. Athersatha gave into the treasure a thousand drama of gold, fifty bowls, and five hundred and thirty garments for priests.
    71: And some of the heads of families gave to the treasure of the work, twenty thousand drama of gold, and two thousand two hundred pounds of silver. 
    72: And that which the rest of the people gave, was twenty thousand drama of gold, and two thousand pounds of silver, and sixty-seven garments for priests. 
    73: And the priests, and the Levites, and the porters, and the singing men, and the rest of the common people, and the Nathinites, and all Israel dwelt in their cities.

  Chapter 8.

    1: And the seventh month came: and the children of Israel were in their cities. And all the people were gathered together as one man to the street which is before the water gate, and they spoke to Esdras the scribe, to bring the book of the law of Moses, which the Lord had commanded to Israel. 
    2: Then Esdras the priest brought the law before the multitude of men and women, and all those that could understand, in the first day of the seventh month. 
    3: And he read it plainly in the street that was before the water gate, from the morning until midday, before the men, and the women, and all those that could understand: and the ears of all the people were attentive to the book. 
    4: And Esdras the scribe stood upon a step of wood, which he had made to speak upon, and there stood by him Mathathias, and Semeia, and Ania, and Uria, and Helcia, and Maasia, on his right hand: and on the left, Phadaia, Misael, and Melchia, and Hasum, and Hasbadana, Zacharia and Mosollam. 
    5: And Esdras opened the book before all the people: for he was above all the people: and when he had opened it, all the people stood.
    6: And Esdras blessed the Lord the great God: and all the people answered, Amen, amen: lifting up their hands: and they bowed down, and adored God with their faces to the ground. 
    7: Now Josue, and Bani, and Serebia, Jamin, Accub, Sephtai, Odia, Maasia, Celtia, Azarias, Jozabed, Hanan, Phalaia, the Levites, made silence among the people to hear the law: and the people stood in their place. 
    8: And they read in the book of the law of God distinctly and plainly to be understood: and they understood when it was read. 
    9: And Nehemias (he is Athersatha) and Esdras the priest and scribe, and the Levites who interpreted to all the people, said: This is a holy day to the Lord our God: do not mourn, nor weep: for all the people wept, when they heard the words of the law. 
    10: And he said to them: Go, eat fat meats, and drink sweet wine, and send portions to them that have not prepared for themselves: because it is the holy day of the Lord, and be not sad: for the joy of the Lord is our strength.
    11: And the Levites stilled all the people, saying: Hold your peace, for the day is holy, and be not sorrowful. 
    12: So all the people went to eat and drink, and to send portions, and to make great mirth: because they understood the words that he had taught them. 
    13: And on the second day the chiefs of the families of all the people, the priests, and the Levites were gathered together to Esdras the scribe, that he should interpret to them the words of the law. 
    14: And they found written in the law, that the Lord had commanded by the hand of Moses, that the children of Israel should dwell in tabernacles, on the feast, in the seventh month: 
    15: And that they should proclaim and publish the word in all their cities, and in Jerusalem, saying: Go forth to the mount, and fetch branches of olive, and branches of beautiful wood, branches of myrtle, and branches of palm, and branches of thick trees, to make tabernacles, as it is written.
    16: And the people went forth, and brought. And they made themselves tabernacles every man on the top of his house, and in their courts, and in the courts of the house of God, and in the street of the water gate, and in the street of the gate of Ephraim. 
    17: And all the assembly of them that were returned from the captivity, made tabernacles, and dwelt in tabernacles: for since the days of Josue the son of Nun the children of Israel had not done so, until that day: and there was exceeding great joy. 
    18: And he read in the book of the law of God day by day, from the first day till the last, and they kept the solemnity seven days, and in the eighth day a solemn assembly according to the manner.

End of day 110.