Day 137:

Reading Job, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: My spirit shall be wasted, my days shall be shortened, and only the grave remaineth for me. 
    2: I have not sinned, and my eye abideth in bitterness. 
    3: Deliver me O Lord, and set me beside thee, and let any man's hand fight against me. 
    4: Thou hast set their heart far from understanding, therefore they shall not be exalted. 
    5: He promiseth a prey to his companions, and the eyes of his children shall fail.
    6: He hath made me as it were a byword of the people, and I am an example before them. 
    7: My eye is dim through indignation, and my limbs are brought as it were to nothing. 
    8: The just shall be astonished at this, and the innocent shall be raised up against the hypocrite. 
    9: And the just man shall hold on his way, and he that hath clean hands shall be stronger and stronger. 
    10: Wherefore be you all converted, and come, and I shall not find among you any wise man.
    11: My days have passed away, my thoughts are dissipated, tormenting my heart. 
    12: They have turned night into day, and after darkness I hope for light again. 
    13: If I wait hell is my house, and I have made my bed in darkness. 
    14: If I have said to rottenness: Thou art my father; to worms, my mother and my sister. 
    15: Where is now then my expectation, and who considereth my patience?
    16: All that I have shall go down into the deepest pit: thinkest thou that there at least I shall have rest?

  Chapter 18.

    1: Then Baldad the Suhite answered, and said: 
    2: How long will you throw out words? understand first, and so let us speak. 
    3: Why are we reputed as beasts, and counted vile before you? 
    4: Thou that destroyest thy soul in thy fury, shall the earth be forsaken for thee, and shall rocks be removed out of their place? 
    5: Shall not the light of the wicked be extinguished, and the flame of his fire not shine?
    6: The light shall be dark in his tabernacle, and the lamp that is over him, shall be put out. 
    7: The step of his strength shall be straitened, and his own counsel shall cast him down headlong. 
    8: For he hath thrust his feet into a net, and walketh in its meshes. 
    9: The sole of his foot shall be held in a snare, and thirst shall burn against him. 
    10: A gin is hidden for him in the earth, and his trap upon the path.
    11: Fears shall terrify him on every side, and shall entangle his feet. 
    12: Let his strength be wasted with famine, and let hunger invade his ribs. 
    13: Let it devour the beauty of his skin, let the firstborn death consume his arms. 
    14: Let his confidence be rooted out of his tabernacle, and let destruction tread upon him like a king. 
    15: Let the companions of him that is not, dwell in his tabernacle, let brimstone be sprinkled in his tent.
    16: Let his roots be dried up beneath, and his harvest destroyed above. 
    17: Let the memory of him perish from the earth and let not his name be renowned in the streets. 
    18: He shall drive him out of light into darkness, and shall remove him out of the world. 
    19: His seed shall not subsist, nor his offspring among his people, nor any remnants in his country. 
    20: They that come after him shall be astonished at his day, and horror shall fall upon them that went before.
    21: These men are the tabernacles of the wicked, and this the place of him that knoweth not God.

  Chapter 19.

    1: Then Job answered, and said: 
    2: How long do you afflict my soul, and break me in pieces with words? 
    3: Behold, these ten times you confound me, and are not ashamed to oppress me. 
    4: For if I have been ignorant, my ignorance shall be with me. 
    5: But you have set yourselves up against me, and reprove me with my reproaches.
    6: At least now understand, that God hath not afflicted me with an equal judgment, and compassed me with his scourges. 
    7: Behold I cry suffering violence, and no one will hear: I shall cry aloud, and there is none to judge. 
    8: He hath hedged in my path round about, and I cannot pass, and in my way he hath set darkness. 
    9: He hath stripped me of my glory, and hath taken the crown from my head. 
    10: He hath destroyed me on every side, and I am lost, and he hath taken away my hope, as from a tree that is plucked up.
    11: His wrath is kindled against me, and he hath counted me as his enemy. 
    12: His troops have come together, and have made themselves a way by me, and have besieged my tabernacle round about. 
    13: He hath put my brethren far from me, and my acquaintance like strangers have departed from me. 
    14: My kinsmen have forsaken me, and they that knew me, have forgotten me. 
    15: They that dwelt in my house, and my maidservants have counted me a stranger, and I have been like an alien in their eyes.
    16: I called my servant, and he gave me no answer, I entreated him with my own mouth. 
    17: My wife hath abhorred my breath, and I entreated the children of my womb. 
    18: Even fools despise me; and when I was gone from them, they spoke against me. 
    19: They that were sometime my counsellors, have abhorred me: and he whom I love most is turned against me. 
    20: The flesh being consumed. My bone hath cleaved to my skin, and nothing but lips are left about my teeth.
    21: Have pity on me, have pity on me, at least you my friends, because the hand of the Lord hath touched me. 
    22: Why do you persecute me as God, and glut yourselves with my flesh? 
    23: Who will grant me that my words may be written? Who will grant me that they may be marked down in a book? 
    24: With an iron pen and in a plate of lead, or else be graven with an instrument in flint stone. 
    25: For I know that my Redeemer liveth, and in the last day I shall rise out of the earth.
    26: And I shall be clothed again with my skin, and in my flesh I will see my God. 
    27: Whom I myself shall see, and my eyes shall behold, and not another: this my hope is laid up in my bosom. 
    28: Why then do you say now: Let us persecute him, and let us find occasion of word against him? 
    29: Flee then from the face of the sword, for the sword is the revenger of iniquities: and know ye that there is judgment.

  Chapter 20.

    1: Then Sophar the Naamathite answered, and said: 
    2: Therefore various thoughts succeed one another in me, and my mind is hurried away to different things. 
    3: The doctrine with which thou reprovest me, I will hear, and the spirit of my understanding shall answer for me. 
    4: This I know from the beginning, since man was placed upon the earth, 
    5: That the praise of the wicked is short, and the joy of the hypocrite but for a moment.
    6: If his pride mount up even to heaven, and his head touch the clouds: 
    7: In the end he shall be destroyed like a dunghill, and they that has seen him shall say: Where is he? 
    8: As a dream that fleeth away he shall not be found, he shall pass as a vision of the night: 
    9: The eyes that had seen him, shall see him no more, neither shall his place any more behold him. 
    10: His children shall be oppressed with want, and his hands shall render him his sorrow.
    11: His bones shall be filled with the vices of his youth, and they shall sleep with him in the dust. 
    12: For when evil shall be sweet in his mouth, he will hide it under his tongue. 
    13: He will spare it, and not leave it, and will hide it in his throat. 
    14: His bread in his belly shall be turned into the gall of asps within him. 
    15: The riches which he hath swallowed; he shall vomit up, and God shall draw them out of his belly.
    16: He shall suck the head of asps, and the viper's tongue shall kill him. 
    17: (Let him not see the streams of the river, the brooks of honey and of butter.) 
    18: He shall be punished for all that he did, and yet shall not be consumed: according to the multitude of his devices so also shall he suffer. 
    19: Because he broke in and stripped the poor: he hath violently taken away a house which he did not build. 
    20: And yet his belly was not filled: and when he hath the things he coveted, he shall not be able to possess them.
    21: There was nothing left of his meat, and therefore nothing shall continue of his goods: 
    22: When he shall be filled, he shall be straitened, he shall burn, and every sorrow shall fall upon him. 
    23: May his belly be filled, that God may send forth the wrath of his indignation upon him, and rain down his war upon him. 
    24: He shall flee from weapons of iron, and shall fall upon a bow of brass. 
    25: The sword is drawn out, and cometh forth from its scabbard, and glittereth in his bitterness: the terrible ones shall go and come upon him.
    26: All darkness is hid in his secret places: a fire that is not kindled shall devour him, he shall be afflicted when left in his tabernacle. 
    27: The heavens shall reveal his iniquity, and the earth shall rise up against him. 
    28: The offspring of his house shall be exposed, he shall be pulled down in the day of God's wrath. 
    29: This is the portion of a wicked man from God, and the inheritance of his doings from the Lord.

End of day 137.