Day 29:

Reading Leviticus, chapters ['21', '22', '23', '24']:

  Chapter 21.

    1: The Lord said also to Moses: Speak to the priests the sons of Aaron, and thou shalt say to them: Let not a priest incur an uncleanness at the death of his citizens: 
    2: But only for his kin, such as are near in blood, that is to say, for his father and for his mother, and for his son, and for his daughter, for his brother also, 
    3: And for a maiden sister, who hath had no husband: 
    4: But not even for the prince of his people shall he do any thing that may make him unclean. 
    5: Neither shall they shave their head, nor their beard, nor make incisions in their flesh.
    6: They shall be holy to their God, and shall not profane his name: for they offer the burnt offering of the Lord, and the bread of their God, and therefore they shall be holy. 
    7: They shall not take to wife a harlot or a vile prostitute, nor one that has been put away from her husband: because they are consecrated to their God, 
    8: And offer the leaves of proposition. Let them therefore be holy, because I also am holy, the Lord, who sanctify them. 
    9: If the daughter of a priest be taken in whoredom, and dishonour the name of her father, she shall be burnt with fire. 
    10: The high priest, that is to say, the priest, is the greatest among his brethren. upon whose head the oil of unction hath been poured, and whose hands have been consecrated for the priesthood, and who hath been vested with the holy vestments, shall not uncover his head, he shall not rend his garments:
    11: Nor shall he go in at all to any dead person: not even for his father, or his mother, shall he be defiled: 
    12: Neither shall he go out of the holy places, lest he defile the sanctuary of the Lord, because the oil of the holy unction of his God is upon him. I am the Lord. 
    13: He shall take a virgin unto his wife: 
    14: But a widow or one that is divorced, or defiled, or a harlot, he shall not take, but a maid of his own people: 
    15: He shall not mingle the stock of his kindred with the common people of his nation: for I am the Lord who sanctify him.
    16: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: 
    17: Say to Aaron: Whosoever of thy seed throughout their families, hath a blemish, he shall not offer bread to his God. 
    18: Neither shall he approach to minister to him: If he be blind, if he be lame, if he have a little, or a great, or a crooked nose, 
    19: If his foot, or if his hand be broken, 
    20: If he be crookbacked, or blear eyed, or have a pearl in his eye, or a continual scab, or a dry scurf in his body, or a rupture:
    21: Whosoever of the seed of Aaron the priest hath a blemish, he shall not approach to offer sacrifices to the Lord, nor bread to his God. 
    22: He shall eat nevertheless of the loaves, that are offered in the sanctuary, 
    23: Yet so that he enter not within the veil, nor approach to the altar, because he hath a blemish, and he must not defile my sanctuary. I am the Lord who sanctify them. 
    24: Moses therefore spoke to Aaron, and to his sons and to all Israel, all the things that had been commanded him.

  Chapter 22.

    1: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: 
    2: Speak to Aaron and to his sons, that they beware of those things that are consecrated of the children of Israel, and defile not the name of the things sanctified to me, which they offer. I am the Lord. 
    3: Say to them and to their posterity: Every man of your race, that approacheth to those things that are consecrated, and which the children of Israel have offered to the Lord, in whom there is uncleanness, shall perish before the Lord. I am the Lord. 
    4: The man of the seed of Aaron, that is a leper, or that suffereth a running of the seed, shall not eat of those things that are sanctified to me, until he be healed. He that toucheth any thing unclean by occasion of the dead, and he whose seed goeth from him as in generation, 
    5: And he that toucheth a creeping thing, or any unclean thing, the touching of which is defiling,
    6: Shall be unclean until the evening, and shall not eat those things that are sanctified: but when he hath washed his flesh with water, 
    7: And the sun is down, then being purified, he shall eat of the sanctified things, because it is his meat. 
    8: That which dieth of itself, and that which was taken by a beast, they shall not eat, nor be defiled therewith, I am the Lord. 
    9: Let them keep my precepts, that they may not fall into sin, and die in the sanctuary, when they shall have defiled it. I am the Lord who sanctify them. 
    10: No stranger shall eat of the sanctified things: a sojourner of the priests, or a hired servant, shall not eat of them.
    11: But he whom the priest hath bought, and he that is his servant, born in his house, these shall eat of them. 
    12: If the daughter of a priest be married to any of the people, she shall not eat of those things that are sanctified, nor of the firstfruits. 
    13: But if she be a widow, or divorced, and having no children return to her father's house, she shall eat of her father's meats, as she was wont to do when she was a maid, no stranger hath leave to eat of them. 
    14: He that eateth of the sanctified things through ignorance, shall add the fifth part with that which he ate, and shall give it to the priest into the sanctuary. 
    15: And they shall not profane the sanctified things of the children of Israel, which they offer to the Lord:
    16: Lest perhaps they bear the iniquity of their trespass, when they shall have eaten the sanctified things. I am the Lord who sanctify them. 
    17: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: 
    18: Speak to Aaron, and to his sons, and to all the children of Israel, and thou shalt say to them: The man of the house of Israel, and of the strangers who dwell with you, that offereth his oblation, either paying his vows, or offering of his own accord, whatsoever it be which he presenteth for a holocaust of the Lord, 
    19: To be offered by you, it shall be a male without blemish of the calves, or of the sheep, or of the goats. 
    20: If it have a blemish you shall not offer it, neither shall it be acceptable.
    21: The man that offereth a victim of peace offerings to the Lord, either paying his vows, or offering of his own accord, whether of calves or of sheep, shall offer it without blemish, that it may be acceptable: there shall be no blemish in it. 
    22: If it be blind, or broken, or have a scar or blisters, or a scab, or a dry scurf: you shall not offer them to the Lord, nor burn any thing of them upon the Lord's altar. 
    23: An ox or a sheep, that hath the ear and the tail cut off, thou mayst offer voluntarily: but a vow may not be paid with them. 
    24: You shall not offer to the Lord any beast that hath the testicles bruised, or crushed, or cut and taken away: neither shall you do any such thing in your land. 
    25: You shall not offer bread to your God, from the hand of a stranger, nor any other thing that he would give: because they are all corrupted, and defiled: you shall not receive them.
    26: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: 
    27: When a bullock, or a sheep, or a goat, is brought forth, they shall be seven days under the udder of their dam: but the eighth day, and thenceforth, they may be offered to the Lord. 
    28: Whether it be a cow, or a sheep, they shall not be sacrificed the same day with their young ones. 
    29: If you immolate a victim for thanksgiving to the Lord, that he may be favourable, 
    30: You shall eat it the same day, there shall not any of it remain until the morning of the next day. I am the Lord.
    31: Keep my commandments, and do them. I am the Lord. 
    32: Profane not my holy name, that I may be sanctified in the midst of the children of Israel. I am the Lord who sanctify you, 
    33: And who brought you out of the land of Egypt, that I might be your God: I am the Lord.

  Chapter 23.

    1: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: 
    2: Speak to the children of Israel, and thou shalt say to them: These are the feasts of the Lord, which you shall call holy. 
    3: Six days shall ye do work: the seventh day, because it is the rest of the sabbath, shall be called holy. You shall do no work on that day: it is the sabbath of the Lord in all your habitations. 
    4: These also are the holy days of the Lord, which you must celebrate in their seasons. 
    5: The first month, the fourteenth day of the month at evening, is the phase of the Lord:
    6: And the fifteenth day of the same month is the solemnity of the unleavened bread of the Lord. Seven days shall you eat unleavened bread. 
    7: The first day shall be most solemn unto you, and holy: you shall do no servile work therein: 
    8: But you shall offer sacrifice in fire to the Lord seven days. And the seventh day shall be more solemn, and more holy: and you shall do no servile work therein. 
    9: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: 
    10: Speak to the children of Israel, and thou shalt say to them: When you shall have entered into the land which I will give you, and shall reap your corn, you shall bring sheaves of ears, the firstfruits of your harvest to the priest:
    11: Who shall lift up the sheaf before the Lord, the next day after the sabbath, that it may be acceptable for you, and shall sanctify it. 
    12: And on the same day that the sheaf is consecrated, a lamb without blemish of the first year shall be killed for a holocaust of the Lord. 
    13: And the libations shall be offered with it, two tenths of flour tempered with oil for a burnt offering of the Lord, and a most sweet odour: libations also of wine, the fourth part of a hin. 
    14: You shall not eat either bread, or parched corn, or frumenty of the harvest, until the day that you shall offer thereof to your God. It is a precept for ever throughout your generations, and all your dwellings. 
    15: You shall count therefore from the morrow after the sabbath, wherein you offered the sheaf of the firstfruits, seven full weeks.
    16: Even unto the marrow after the seventh week be expired, that is to say, fifty days, and so you shall offer a new sacrifice to the Lord. 
    17: Out of all your dwellings, two leaves of the firstfruits, of two tenths of flour leavened, which you shall bake for the firstfruits of the Lord. 
    18: And you shall offer with the leaves seven lambs without blemish of the first year, and one calf from the herd, and two rams, and they shall be for a holocaust with their libations far a most sweet odour to the Lord. 
    19: You shall offer also a buck goat for sin, and two lambs of the first year for sacrifices of peace offerings. 
    20: And when the priest hath lifted them up with the leaves of the firstfruits before the Lord, they shall fall to his use.
    21: And you shall call this day most solemn, and most holy. You shall do no servile work therein. It shall be an everlasting ordinance in all your dwellings and generations. 
    22: And when you reap the corn of your land, you shall not cut it to the very ground: neither shall you gather the ears that remain; but you shall leave them for the poor and for the strangers. I am the Lord your God. 
    23: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: 
    24: Say to the children of Israel: The seventh month, on the first day of the month, you shall keep a sabbath, a memorial, with she sound of trumpets, and it shall be called holy. 
    25: You shall do no servile work therein, and you shall offer a holocaust to the Lord.
    26: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: 
    27: Upon the tenth day of this seventh month shall be the day of atonement, it shall be most solemn, and shall be called holy: and you shall afflict your souls on that day, and shall offer a holocaust to the Lord. 
    28: You shall do no servile work in the time of this day: because it is a day of propitiation, that the Lord your God may be merciful unto you. 
    29: Every soul that is not afflicted on this day, shall perish from among his people: 
    30: And every soul that shall do any work, the same will I destroy from among his people.
    31: You shall do no work therefore on that day: it shall be an everlasting ordinance unto you in all your generations, and dwellings. 
    32: It is a sabbath of rest, and you shall afflict your souls beginning on the ninth day of the month: from evening until evening you shall celebrate your sabbaths. 
    33: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: 
    34: Say to the children of Israel: From the fifteenth day of this same seventh month, shall be kept the feast of tabernacles seven days to the Lord. 
    35: The first day shall be called most solemn and most holy: you shall do no servile work therein. And seven days you shall offer holocausts to the Lord.
    36: The eighth day also shall be most solemn and most holy, and you shall offer holocausts to the Lord: for it is the day of assembly and congregation: you shall do no servile work therein. 
    37: These are the feasts of the Lord, which you shall call most solemn and most holy, and shall offer on them oblations to the Lord, holocausts and libations according to the rite of every day, 
    38: Besides the sabbaths of the Lord, and your gifts, and those things that you offer by vow, or which you shall give to the Lord voluntarily. 
    39: So from the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when you shall have gathered in all the fruits of your land, you shall celebrate the feast of the Lord seven days: on the first day and the eighth shall be a sabbath, that is a day of rest. 
    40: And you shall take to you on the first day the fruits of the fairest tree, and branches of palm trees, and boughs of thick trees, and willows of the brook, and you shall rejoice before the Lord your God.
    41: And you shall keep the solemnity thereof seven days in the year. It shall be an everlasting ordinance in your generations. In the seventh month shall you celebrate this feast. 
    42: And you shall dwell in bowers seven days: every one that is of the race of Israel, shall dwell in tabernacles: 
    43: That your posterity may know, that I made the children of Israel to dwell in tabernacles, when I brought them out of the land of Egypt. I am the Lord your God. 
    44: And Moses spoke concerning the feasts of the Lord to the children of Israel.

  Chapter 24.

    1: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: 
    2: Command the children of Israel, that they bring unto thee the finest and dearest oil of olives, to furnish the lamps continually, 
    3: Without the veil of the testimony in the tabernacle of the covenant. And Aaron shall set them from evening until morning before the Lord, by a perpetual service and rite in your generations. 
    4: They shall be set upon the most pure candlestick before the Lord continually. 
    5: Thou shalt take also fine flour, and shalt bake twelve leaves thereof, two tenths shall be in every loaf:
    6: And thou shalt set them six and six one against another upon the most clean table before the Lord: 
    7: And thou shalt put upon them the dearest frankincense, that the bread may be for a memorial of the oblation of the Lord. 
    8: Every sabbath they shall be changed before the Lord, being received of the children of Israel by an everlasting covenant: 
    9: And they shall be Aaron's and his sons', that they may eat them in the holy place: because it is most holy of the sacrifices of the Lord by a perpetual right. 
    10: And behold there went out the son of a woman of Israel, whom she had of an Egyptian, among the children of Israel, and fell at words in the camp with a man of Israel.
    11: And when he had blasphemed the name, and had cursed it, he was brought to Moses: (now his mother was called Salumith, the daughter of Dabri, of the tribe of Dan:) 
    12: And they put him into prison, till they might know what the Lord would command. 
    13: And the Lord spoke to Moses, 
    14: Saying: Bring forth the blasphemer without the camp, and let them that heard him, put their hands upon his head, and let all the people stone him. 
    15: And thou shalt speak to the children of Israel: the man that curseth his God, shall bear his sin:
    16: And he that blasphemeth the name of the Lord, dying let him die: all the multitude shall stone him, whether he be a native or a stranger. He that blasphemeth the name of the Lord, dying let him die. 
    17: He that striketh and killeth a man, dying let him die. 
    18: He that killeth a beast, shall make it good, that is to say, shall give beast for beast. 
    19: He that giveth a blemish to any of his neighbours: as he hath done, so shall it be done to him: 
    20: Breach for breach, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, shall he restore. What blemish he gave, the like shall he be compelled to suffer.
    21: He that striketh a beast, shall render another. He that striketh a man shall be punished. 
    22: Let there be equal judgment among you, whether he be a stranger, or a native that offends: because I am the Lord your God. 
    23: And Moses spoke to the children of Israel: and they brought forth him that had blasphemed, without the camp, and they stoned him. And the children of Israel did as the Lord had commanded Moses.

End of day 29.