Day 317:

Reading Romans, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: Let every soul be subject to higher powers: for there is no power but from God: and those that are, are ordained of God. 
    2: Therefore he that resisteth the power, resisteth the ordinance of God. And they that resist, purchase to themselves damnation. 
    3: For princes are not a terror to the good work, but to the evil. Wilt thou then not be afraid of the power? Do that which is good: and thou shalt have praise from the same. 
    4: For he is God's minister to thee, for good. But if thou do that which is evil, fear: for he beareth not the sword in vain. For he is God's minister: an avenger to execute wrath upon him that doth evil. 
    5: Wherefore be subject of necessity, not only for wrath, but also for conscience' sake.
    6: For therefore also you pay tribute. For they are the ministers of God, serving unto this purpose. 
    7: Render therefore to all men their dues. Tribute, to whom tribute is due: custom, to whom custom: fear, to whom fear: honour, to whom honour. 
    8: Owe no man any thing, but to love one another. For he that loveth his neighbour, hath fulfilled the law. 
    9: For Thou shalt not commit adultery: Thou shalt not kill: Thou shalt not steal, Thou shalt not bear false witness: Thou shalt not covet: and if there be any other commandment, it is comprised in this word, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. 
    10: The love of our neighbour worketh no evil. Love therefore is the fulfilling of the law.
    11: And that knowing the season; that it is now the hour for us to rise from sleep. For now our salvation is nearer than when we believed. 
    12: The night is passed, and the day is at hand. Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness, and put on the armour of light. 
    13: Let us walk honestly, as in the day: not in rioting and drunkenness, not in chambering and impurities, not in contention and envy: 
    14: But put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make not provision for the flesh in its concupiscences.

  Chapter 14.

    1: Now him that is weak in faith, take unto you: not in disputes about thoughts. 
    2: For one believeth that he may eat all things: but he that is weak, let him eat herbs. 
    3: Let not him that eateth, despise him that eateth not: and he that eateth not, let him not judge him that eateth. For God hath taken him to him. 
    4: Who art thou that judgest another man's servant? To his own lord he standeth or falleth. And he shall stand: for God is able to make him stand. 
    5: For one judgeth between day and day: and another judgeth every day: let every man abound in his own sense.
    6: He that regardeth the day, regardeth it unto the Lord. And he that eateth, eateth to the Lord: for he giveth thanks to God. And he that eateth not, to the Lord he eateth not, and giveth thanks to God. 
    7: For none of us liveth to himself; and no man dieth to himself. 
    8: For whether we live, we live unto the Lord; or whether we die, we die unto the Lord. Therefore, whether we live, or whether we die, we are the Lord's. 
    9: For to this end Christ died and rose again; that he might be Lord both of the dead and of the living. 
    10: But thou, why judgest thou thy brother? or thou, why dost thou despise thy brother? For we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ.
    11: For it is written: As I live, saith the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God. 
    12: Therefore every one of us shall render account to God for himself. 
    13: Let us not therefore judge one another any more. But judge this rather, that you put not a stumblingblock or a scandal in your brother's way. 
    14: I know, and am confident in the Lord Jesus, that nothing is unclean of itself; but to him that esteemeth any thing to be unclean, to him it is unclean. 
    15: For if, because of thy meat, thy brother be grieved, thou walkest not now according to charity. Destroy not him with thy meat, for whom Christ died.
    16: Let not then our good be evil spoken of. 
    17: For the kingdom of God is not meat and drink; but justice, and peace, and joy in the Holy Ghost. 
    18: For he that in this serveth Christ, pleaseth God, and is approved of men. 
    19: Therefore let us follow after the things that are of peace; and keep the things that are of edification one towards another. 
    20: Destroy not the work of God for meat. All things indeed are clean: but it is evil for that man who eateth with offence.
    21: It is good not to eat flesh, and not to drink wine, nor any thing whereby thy brother is offended, or scandalized, or made weak. 
    22: Hast thou faith? Have it to thyself before God. Blessed is he that condemneth not himself in that which he alloweth. 
    23: But he that discerneth, if he eat, is condemned; because not of faith. For all that is not of faith is sin.

  Chapter 15.

    1: Now we that are stronger, ought to bear the infirmities of the weak, and not to please ourselves. 
    2: Let every one of you please his neighbour unto good, to edification. 
    3: For Christ did not please himself, but as it is written: The reproaches of them that reproached thee, fell upon me. 
    4: For what things soever were written, were written for our learning: that through patience and the comfort of the scriptures, we might have hope. 
    5: Now the God of patience and of comfort grant you to be of one mind one towards another, according to Jesus Christ:
    6: That with one mind, and with one mouth, you may glorify God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
    7: Wherefore receive one another, as Christ also hath received you unto the honour of God. 
    8: For I say that Christ Jesus was minister of the circumcision for the truth of God, to confirm the promises made unto the fathers. 
    9: But that the Gentiles are to glorify God for his mercy, as it is written: Therefore will I confess to thee, O Lord, among the Gentiles, and will sing to thy name. 
    10: And again he saith: Rejoice, ye Gentiles, with his people.
    11: And again: Praise the Lord, all ye Gentiles; and magnify him, all ye people. 
    12: And again Isaias saith: There shall be a root of Jesse; and he that shall rise up to rule the Gentiles, in him the Gentiles shall hope. 
    13: Now the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing; that you may abound in hope, and in the power of the Holy Ghost. 
    14: And I myself also, my brethren, am assured of you, that you also are full of love, replenished with all knowledge, so that you are able to admonish one another. 
    15: But I have written to you, brethren, more boldly in some sort, as it were putting you in mind: because of the grace which is given me from God.
    16: That I should be the minister of Christ Jesus among the Gentiles; sanctifying the gospel of God, that the oblation of the Gentiles may be made acceptable and sanctified in the Holy Ghost. 
    17: I have therefore glory in Christ Jesus towards God. 
    18: For I dare not to speak of any of those things which Christ worketh not by me, for the obedience of the Gentiles, by word and deed, 
    19: By the virtue of signs and wonders, in the power of the Holy Ghost, so that from Jerusalem round about as far as unto Illyricum, I have replenished the gospel of Christ. 
    20: And I have so preached this gospel, not where Christ was named, lest I should build upon another man's foundation.
    21: But as it is written: They to whom he was not spoken of, shall see, and they that have not heard shall understand. 
    22: For which cause also I was hindered very much from coming to you, and have been kept away till now. 
    23: But now having no more place in these countries, and having a great desire these many years past to come unto you, 
    24: When I shall begin to take my journey into Spain, I hope that as I pass, I shall see you, and be brought on my way thither by you, if first, in part, I shall have enjoyed you: 
    25: But now I shall go to Jerusalem, to minister unto the saints.
    26: For it hath pleased them of Macedonia and Achaia to make a contribution for the poor of the saints that are in Jerusalem. 
    27: For it hath pleased them; and they are their debtors. For if the Gentiles have been made partakers of their spiritual things, they ought also in carnal things to minister to them. 
    28: When therefore I shall have accomplished this, and consigned to them this fruit, I will come by you into Spain. 
    29: And I know, that when I come to you, I shall come in the abundance of the blessing of the gospel of Christ. 
    30: I beseech you therefore, brethren, through our Lord Jesus Christ, and by the charity of the Holy Ghost, that you help me in your prayers for me to God,
    31: That I may be delivered from the unbelievers that are in Judea, and that the oblation of my service may be acceptable in Jerusalem to the saints. 
    32: That I may come to you with joy, by the will of God, and may be refreshed with you. 
    33: Now the God of peace be with you all. Amen.

  Chapter 16.

    1: And I commend to you Phebe, our sister, who is in the ministry of the church, that is in Cenchrae: 
    2: That you receive her in the Lord as becometh saints; and that you assist her in whatsoever business she shall have need of you. For she also hath assisted many, and myself also. 
    3: Salute Prisca and Aquila, my helpers in Christ Jesus, 
    4: (Who have for my life laid down their own necks: to whom not I only give thanks, but also all the churches of the Gentiles,) 
    5: And the church which is in their house. Salute Epenetus, my beloved: who is the firstfruits of Asia in Christ.
    6: Salute Mary, who hath laboured much among you. 
    7: Salute Andronicus and Junias, my kinsmen and fellow prisoners: who are of note among the apostles, who also were in Christ before me. 
    8: Salute Ampliatus, most beloved to me in the Lord. 
    9: Salute Urbanus, our helper in Christ Jesus, and Stachys, my beloved. 
    10: Salute Apelles, approved in Christ.
    11: Salute them that are of Aristobulus' household. Salute Herodian, my kinsman. Salute them that are of Narcissus' household, who are in the Lord. 
    12: Salute Tryphaena and Tryphosa, who labour in the Lord. Salute Persis, the dearly beloved, who hath much laboured in the Lord. 
    13: Salute Rufus, elect in the Lord, and his mother and mine. 
    14: Salute Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermas, Patrobas, Hermes, and the brethren that are with them. 
    15: Salute Philologus and Julia, Nereus and his sister, and Olympias; and all the saints that are with them.
    16: Salute one another with an holy kiss. All the churches of Christ salute you. 
    17: Now I beseech you, brethren, to mark them who make dissensions and offences contrary to the doctrine which you have learned, and avoid them. 
    18: For they that are such, serve not Christ our Lord, but their own belly; and by pleasing speeches and good words, seduce the hearts of the innocent. 
    19: For your obedience is published in every place. I rejoice therefore in you. But I would have you to be wise in good, and simple in evil. 
    20: And the God of peace crush Satan under your feet speedily. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
    21: Timothy, my fellow labourer, saluteth you, and Lucius, and Jason, and Sosipater, my kinsmen. 
    22: I Tertius, who wrote this epistle, salute you in the Lord. 
    23: Caius, my host, and the whole church, saluteth you. Erastus, the treasurer of the city, saluteth you, and Quartus, a brother. 
    24: The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. 
    25: Now to him that is able to establish you, according to my gospel, and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery, which was kept secret from eternity,
    26: (Which now is made manifest by the scriptures of the prophets, according to the precept of the eternal God, for the obedience of faith,) known among all nations; 
    27: To God the only wise, through Jesus Christ, to whom be honour and glory for ever and ever. Amen.

End of day 317.