Day 6:

Reading Genesis, chapters ['21', '22', '23', '24']:

  Chapter 21.

    1: And the Lord visited Sara, as he had promised: and fulfilled what he had spoken. 
    2: And she conceived and bore a son in her old age, at the time that God had foretold her. 
    3: And Abraham called the name of his son, whom Sara bore him, Isaac. 
    4: And he circumcised him the eighth day, as God had commanded him, 
    5: When he was a hundred years old: for at this age of his father was Isaac born.
    6: And Sara said: God hath made a laughter for me: whosoever shall hear of it will laugh with me. 
    7: And again she said: Who would believe that Abraham should hear that Sara gave suck to a son, whom she bore to him in his old age. 
    8: And the child grew and was weaned: and Abraham made a great feast on the day of his weaning. 
    9: And when Sara had seen the son of Agar the Egyptian playing with Isaac her son, she said to Abraham: 
    10: Cast out this bondwoman, and her son: for the son of the bondwoman shall not be heir with my son Isaac.
    11: Abraham took this grievously for his son. 
    12: And God said to him: Let it not seem grievous to thee for the boy, and for thy bondwoman: in all that Sara hath said to thee, hearken to her voice: for in Isaac shall thy seed be called. 
    13: But I will make the son also of the bondwoman a great nation, because he is thy seed. 
    14: So Abraham rose up in the morning, and taking bread and a bottle of water, put it upon her shoulder, and delivered the boy, and sent her away. And she departed, and wandered in the wilderness of Bersabee. 
    15: And when the water in the bottle was spent, she cast the boy under one of the trees that were there.
    16: And she went her way, and sat over against him a great way off as far as a bow can carry, for she said: I will not see the boy die: and sitting over against, she lifted up her voice and wept. 
    17: And God heard the voice of the boy: and an angel of God called to Agar from heaven, saying: What art thou doing, Agar? fear not: for God hath heard the voice of the boy, from the place wherein he is. 
    18: Arise, take up the boy, and hold him by the hand: for I will make him a great nation. 
    19: And God opened her eyes: and she saw a well of water, and went and filled the bottle, and gave the boy to drink. 
    20: And God was with him: and he grew, and dwelt in the wilderness, and became a young man, an archer.
    21: And he dwelt in the wilderness of Pharan, and his mother took a wife for him out of the land of Egypt. 
    22: At the same time Abimelech, and Phicol the general of his army said to Abraham: God is with thee in all that thou dost. 
    23: Swear therefore by God, that thou wilt not hurt me, nor my posterity, nor my stock: but according to the kindness that I have done to thee, thou shalt do to me, and to the land wherein thou hast lived a stranger. 
    24: And Abraham said: I will swear. 
    25: And he reproved Abimelech for a well of water, which his servants had taken away by force.
    26: And Abimelech answered: I knew not who did this thing: and thou didst not tell me, and I heard not of it till today. 
    27: And Abraham took sheep and oxen and gave them to Abimelech: and both of them made a league. 
    28: And Abraham set apart seven ewe lambs of the flock. 
    29: And Abimelech said to him: What mean these seven ewe lambs which thou hast set apart? 
    30: But he said: Thou shalt take seven ewe lambs at my hand: that they may be a testimony for me, that I dug this well.
    31: Therefore that place was called Bersabee: because there both of them did swear. 
    32: And they made a league for the well of oath. 
    33: And Abimelech, and Phicol the general of his army arose and returned to the land of the Palestines. But Abraham planted a grove in Bersabee, and there called upon the name of the Lord God eternal. 
    34: And he was a sojourner in the land of the Palestines many days.

  Chapter 22.

    1: After these things, God tempted Abraham, and said to him: Abraham, Abraham. And he answered: Here I am. 
    2: He said to him: Take thy only begotten son Isaac, whom thou lovest, and go into the land of vision: and there thou shalt offer him for an holocaust upon one of the mountains which I will shew thee. 
    3: So Abraham rising up in the night, saddled his ass: and took with him two young men, and Isaac his son: and when he had cut wood for the holocaust he went his way to the place which God had commanded him. 
    4: And on the third day, lifting up his eyes, he saw the place afar off. 
    5: And he said to his young men: Stay you here with the ass: I and the boy will go with speed as far as yonder, and after we have worshipped, will return to you.
    6: And he took the wood for the holocaust, and laid it upon Isaac his son: and he himself carried in his hands fire and a sword. And as they two went on together, 
    7: Isaac said to his father: My father. And he answered: What wilt thou, son? Behold, saith he, fire and wood: where is the victim for the holocaust? 
    8: And Abraham said: God will provide himself a victim for an holocaust, my son. So they went on together. 
    9: And they came to the place which God had shewn him, where he built an altar, and laid the wood in order upon it: and when he had bound Isaac his son, he laid him on the altar upon the pile of wood. 
    10: And he put forth his hand and took the sword, to sacrifice his son.
    11: And behold an angel of the Lord from heaven called to him, saying: Abraham, Abraham. And he answered: Here I am. 
    12: And he said to him: Lay not thy hand upon the boy, neither do thou any thing to him: now I know that thou fearest God, and hast not spared thy only begotten son for my sake. 
    13: Abraham lifted up his eyes, and saw behind his back a ram amongst the briers sticking fast by the horns, which he took and offered for a holocaust instead of his son. 
    14: And he called the name of that place, The Lord seeth. Whereupon even to this day it is said: In the mountain the Lord will see. 
    15: And the angel of the Lord called to Abraham a second time from heaven, saying:
    16: By my own self have I sworn, saith the Lord: because thou hast done this thing, and hast not spared thy only begotten son for my sake: 
    17: I will bless thee, and I will multiply thy seed as the stars of heaven, and as the sand that is by the sea shore: thy seed shall possess the gates of their enemies. 
    18: And in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed, because thou hast obeyed my voice. 
    19: Abraham returned to his young men, and they went to Bersabee together, and he dwelt there. 
    20: After these things, it was told Abraham that Melcha also had borne children to Nachor his brother.
    21: Hus the firstborn, and Buz his brother, and Camuel the father of the Syrians, 
    22: And Cased, and Azau, and Pheldas, and Jedlaph, 
    23: And Bathuel, of whom was born Rebecca: These eight did Melcha bear to Nachor Abraham's brother. 
    24: And his concubine, named Roma, bore Tabee, and Gaham, and Tahas, and Maacha.

  Chapter 23.

    1: And Sara lived a hundred and twenty-seven years. 
    2: And she died in the city of Arbee which is Hebron, in the land of Chanaan: and Abraham came to mourn and weep for her. 
    3: And after he rose up from the funeral obsequies, he spoke to the children of Heth, saying: 
    4: I am a stranger and sojourner among you: give me the right of a burying place with you, that I may bury my dead. 
    5: The children of Heth answered, saying:
    6: My Lord, hear us, thou art a prince of God among us: bury thy dead in our principal sepulchres: and no man shall have power to hinder thee from burying thy dead in his sepulchre. 
    7: Abraham rose up, and bowed down to the people of the land, to wit the children of Heth: 
    8: And said to them: If it please your soul that I should bury my dead, hear me, and intercede for me to Ephron the son of Seor. 
    9: That he may give me the double cave, which he hath in the end of his field: for as much money as it is worth he shall give it me before you, for a possession of a burying place. 
    10: Now Ephron dwelt in the midst of the children of Heth. And Ephron made answer to Abraham in the hearing of all that went in at the gate of the city, saying:
    11: Let it not be so, my lord, but do thou rather hearken to what I say: The field I deliver to thee, and the cave that is therein, in the presence of the children of my people, bury thy dead. 
    12: Abraham bowed down before the people of the land, 
    13: And he spoke to Ephron, in the presence of the people: I beseech thee to hear me: I will give money for the field: take it, and so I will bury my dead in it. 
    14: And Ephron answered: 
    15: My lord, hear me. The ground which thou desirest, is worth four hundred sicles of silver: this is the price between me and thee: but what is this? bury thy dead.
    16: And when Abraham had heard this, he weighed out the money that Ephron had asked, in the hearing of the children of Heth, four hundred sicles of silver of common current money. 
    17: And the field that before was Ephron's, wherein was the double cave, looking towards Mambre, both it and the cave, and all the trees thereof in all its limits round about, 
    18: Was made sure to Abraham for a possession, in the sight of the children of Heth, and of all that went in at the gate of his city. 
    19: And so Abraham buried Sara his wife, in a double cave of the field, that looked towards Mambre, this is Hebron in the land of Chanaan. 
    20: And the field was made sure to Abraham, and the cave that was in it, for a possession to bury in, by the children of Heth.

  Chapter 24.

    1: Now Abraham was old; and advanced in age: and the Lord had blessed him in all things. 
    2: And he said to the elder servant of his house, who was ruler over all he had: Put thy hand under my thigh, 
    3: That I may make thee swear by the Lord the God of heaven and earth, that thou take not a wife for my son, of the daughters of the Chanaanites, among whom I dwell: 
    4: But that thou go to my own country and kindred, and take a wife from thence for my son Isaac. 
    5: The servant answered: If the woman will not come with me into this land, must I bring thy son back again to the place, from whence thou camest out?
    6: And Abraham said: Beware thou never bring my son back again thither. 
    7: The Lord God of heaven, who took me out of my father's house, and out of my native country, who spoke to me, and swore to me, saying: To thy seed will I give this land: he will send his angel before thee, and thou shalt take from thence a wife for my son. 
    8: But if the woman will not follow thee, thou shalt not be bound by the oath; only bring not my son back thither again. 
    9: The servant therefore put his hand under the thigh of Abraham his lord, and swore to him upon this word. 
    10: And he took ten camels of his master's herd, and departed, carrying something of all his goods with him, and he set forward and went on to Mesopotamia to the city of Nachor.
    11: And when he had made the camels lie down without the town near a well of water in the evening, at the time when women are wont to come out to draw water, he said: 
    12: O Lord the God of my master Abraham, meet me today, I beseech thee, and shew kindness to my master Abraham. 
    13: Behold I stand nigh the spring of water, and the daughters of the inhabitants of this city will come out to draw water. 
    14: Now, therefore, the maid to whom I shall say: Let down thy pitcher that I may drink: and she shall answer, Drink, and I will give thy camels drink also: let it be the same whom thou hast provided for thy servant Isaac: and by this I shall understand, that thou hast shewn kindness to my master. 
    15: He had not yet ended these words within himself, and behold Rebecca came out, the daughter of Bathuel, son of Melcha, wife to Nachor the brother of Abraham, having a pitcher on her shoulder:
    16: An exceeding comely maid, and a most beautiful virgin, and not known to man: and she went down to the spring, and filled her pitcher and was coming back. 
    17: And the servant ran to meet her, and said: Give me a little water to drink of thy pitcher. 
    18: And she answered: Drink, my lord. And quickly she let down the pitcher upon her arm, and gave him drink. 
    19: And when he had drunk, she said: I will draw water for thy camels also, till they all drink. 
    20: And pouring out the pitcher into the troughs, she ran back to the well to draw water: and having drawn she gave to all the camels.
    21: But he musing beheld her with silence, desirous to know whether the Lord had made his journey prosperous or not. 
    22: And after that the camels had drunk, the man took out golden earrings, weighing two sicles: and as many bracelets of ten sicles weight. 
    23: And he said to her: Whose daughter art thou? tell me: is there any place in thy father's house to lodge? 
    24: And she answered: I am the daughter of Bathuel, the son of Melcha, whom she bore to Nachor. 
    25: And she said moreover to him: We have good store of both straw and hay, and a large place to lodge in.
    26: The man bowed himself down, and adored the Lord, 
    27: Saying: Blessed be the Lord God of my master Abraham, who hath not taken away his mercy and truth from my master, and hath brought me the straight way into the house of my master's brother. 
    28: Then the maid ran, and told in her mother's house, all that she had heard. 
    29: And Rebecca had a brother named Laban, who went out in haste to the man, to the well. 
    30: And when he had seen the earrings and bracelets in his sister's hands, and had heard all that she related, saying: Thus and thus the man spoke to me: he came to the man who stood by the camels, and near to the spring of water,
    31: And said to him: Come in, thou blessed of the Lord: why standest thou without? I have prepared the house, and a place for the camels. 
    32: And he brought him in into his lodging: and he unharnessed the camels and gave straw and hay, and water to wash his feet, and the feet of the men that were come with him. 
    33: And bread was set before him. But he said: I will not eat, till I tell my message. He answered him: Speak. 
    34: And he said: I am the servant of Abraham: 
    35: And the Lord hath blessed my master wonderfully, and he is become great: and he hath given him sheep and oxen, silver and gold, men servants and women servants, camels and asses.
    36: And Sara my master's wife hath borne my master a son in her old age, and he hath given him all that he had. 
    37: And my master made me swear, saying: Thou shalt not take a wife for my son of the Chanaanites, in whose land I dwell: 
    38: But thou shalt go to my father's house, and shalt take a wife of my own kindred for my son: 
    39: But I answered my master: What if the woman will not come with me? 
    40: The Lord, said he, in whose sight I walk, will send his angel with thee, and will direct thy way: and thou shalt take a wife for my son of my own kindred, and of my father's house.
    41: But thou shalt be clear from my curse, when thou shalt come to my kindred, if they will not give thee one. 
    42: And I came today to the well of water, and said: O Lord God of my master Abraham, if thou hast prospered my way, wherein I now walk, 
    43: Behold I stand by the well of water, and the virgin, that shall come out to draw water, who shall hear me say: Give me a little water to drink of thy pitcher: 
    44: And shall say to me: Both drink thou, and I will also draw for thy camels: let the same be the woman, whom the Lord hath prepared for my master's son. 
    45: And whilst I pondered these things secretly with myself, Rebecca appeared coming with a pitcher, which she carried on her shoulder: and she went down to the well and drew water. And I said to her: Give me a little to drink.
    46: And she speedily let down the pitcher from her shoulder, and said to me: Both drink thou, and to thy camels I will give drink. I drank, and she watered the camels. 
    47: And I asked her, and said: Whose daughter art thou? And she answered: I am the daughter of Bathuel, the son of Nachor, whom Melcha bore to him. So I put earrings on her to adorn her face, and I put bracelets on her hands. 
    48: And falling down I adored the Lord, blessing the Lord God of my master Abraham, who hath brought me the straight way to take the daughter of my master's brother for his son. 
    49: Wherefore if you do according to mercy and truth with my master, tell me: but if it please you otherwise, tell me that also, that I may go to the right hand, or to the left. 
    50: And Laban and Bathuel answered: The word hath proceeded from the Lord, we cannot speak any other thing to thee but his pleasure.
    51: Behold Rebecca is before thee, take her and go thy way, and let her be the wife of thy master's son, as the Lord hath spoken. 
    52: Which when Abraham's servant heard, falling down to the ground he adored the Lord. 
    53: And bringing forth vessels of silver and gold, and garments, he gave them to Rebecca for a present. He offered gifts also to her brothers, and to her mother. 
    54: And a banquet was made, and they ate and drank together, and lodged there. And in the morning, the servant arose, and said: Let me depart, that I may go to my master. 
    55: And her brother and mother answered: Let the maid stay at least ten days with us, and afterwards she shall depart.
    56: Stay me not, said he, because the Lord hath prospered my way: send me away, that I may go to my master. 
    57: And they said: Let us call the maid, and ask her will. 
    58: And they called her, and when she was come, they asked: Wilt thou go with this man? She said: I will go. 
    59: So they sent her away, and her nurse, and Abraham's servant, and his company, 
    60: Wishing prosperity to their sister, and saying: Thou art our sister, mayst thou increase to thousands of thousands, and may thy seed possess the gates of their enemies.
    61: So Rebecca and her maids, being set upon camels, followed the man: who with speed returned to his master. 
    62: At the same time Isaac was walking along the way to the well which is called Of the living and the seeing: for he dwelt in the south country. 
    63: And he was gone forth to meditate in the field, the day being now well spent: and when he had lifted up his eyes, he saw camels coming afar off. 
    64: Rebecca also, when she saw Isaac, lighted off the camel, 
    65: And said to the servant: Who is that man who cometh towards us along the field? And he said to her: That man is my master. But she quickly took her cloak, and covered herself.
    66: And the servant told Isaac all that he had done. 
    67: Who brought her into the tent of Sara his mother, and took her to wife: and he loved her so much, that it moderated the sorrow which was occasioned by his mother's death.

End of day 6.