Day 40:

Reading Deuteronomy, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: These are the words, which Moses spoke to all Israel beyond the Jordan, in the plain wilderness, over against the Red Sea, between Pharan and Thophel and Laban and Haseroth, where there is very much gold: 
    2: Eleven days' journey from Horeb by the way of Mount Seir to Cadesbarne. 
    3: In the fortieth year, the eleventh month, the first day of the month, Moses spoke to the children of Israel all that the Lord had commanded him to say to them: 
    4: After that he had slain Sehon king of the Amorrhites, who dwelt in Hesebon: and Og king of Basan who abode in Astaroth, and in Edrai, 
    5: Beyond the Jordan in the land of Moab. And Moses began to expound the law, and to say:
    6: The Lord our God spoke to us in Horeb, saying: You have stayed long enough in this mountain: 
    7: Turn you, and come to the mountain of the Amorrhites, and to the other places that are next to it, the plains and the hills and the vales towards the south, and by the sea shore, the land of the Chanaanites, and of Libanus, as far as the great river Euphrates. 
    8: Behold, said he, I have delivered it to you: go in and possess it, concerning which the Lord swore to your fathers Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, that he would give it to them, and to their seed after them. 
    9: And I said to you at that time: 
    10: I alone am not able to bear you: for the Lord your God hath multiplied you, and you are this day as the stars of heaven, for multitude.
    11: (The Lord God of your fathers add to this number many thousands, and bless you as he hath spoken.) 
    12: I alone am not able to bear your business, and the charge of you and your differences. 
    13: Let me have from among you wise and understanding men, and such whose conversation is approved among your tribes, that I may appoint them your rulers. 
    14: Then you answered me: The thing is good which thou meanest to do. 
    15: And I took out of your tribes men wise and honourable, and appointed them rulers, tribunes, and centurions, and officers over fifties, and over tens, who might teach you all things.
    16: And I commanded them, saying: Hear them, and judge that which is just: whether he be one of your country, or a stranger. 
    17: There shall be no difference of persons, you shall hear the little as well as the great: neither shall you respect any man's person, because it is the judgment of God. And if any thing seem hard to you, refer it to me, and I will hear it. 
    18: And I commanded you all things that you were to do. 
    19: And departing from Horeb, we passed through the terrible and vast wilderness, which you saw, by the way of the mountain of the Amorrhite, as the Lord our God had commanded us. And when we were come into Cadesbarne, 
    20: I said to you: You are come to the mountain of the Amorrhite, which the Lord our God will give to us.
    21: See the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee: go up and possess it, as the Lord our God hath spoken to thy fathers: fear not, nor be any way discouraged. 
    22: And you came all to me, and said: Let us send men who may view the land, and bring us word what way we shall go up, and to what cities we shall go. 
    23: And because the saying pleased me, I sent of you twelve men, one of every tribe: 
    24: Who, when they had set forward and had gone up to the mountains, came as far as the valley of the cluster: and having viewed the land, 
    25: Taking of the fruits thereof, to shew its fertility, they brought them to us, and said: The land is good, which the Lord our God will give us.
    26: And you would not go up, but being incredulous to the word of the Lord our God, 
    27: You murmured in your tents, and said: The Lord hateth us, and therefore he hath brought us out of the land of Egypt, that he might deliver us into the hand of the Amorrhite, and destroy us. 
    28: Whither shall we go up? the messengers have terrified our hearts, saying: The multitude is very great, and taller than we: the cities are great, and walled up to the sky, we have seen the sons of the Enacims there. 
    29: And I said to you: Fear not, neither be ye afraid of them: 
    30: The Lord God, who is your leader, himself will fight for you, as he did in Egypt in the sight of all.
    31: And in the wilderness (as thou hast seen) the Lord thy God hath carried thee, as a man is wont to carry his little son, all the way that you have come, until you came to this place. 
    32: And yet for all this you did not believe the Lord your God, 
    33: Who went before you in the way, and marked out the place, wherein you should pitch your tents, in the night shewing you the way by fire, and in the day by the pillar of a cloud. 
    34: And when the Lord had heard the voice of your words, he was angry and swore, and said: 
    35: Not one of the men of this wicked generation shall see the good land, which I promised with an oath to your fathers:
    36: Except Caleb the son of Jephone: for he shall see it, and to him I will give the land that he hath trodden upon, and to his children, because he hath followed the Lord. 
    37: Neither is his indignation against the people to be wondered at, since the Lord was angry with me also on your account, and said: Neither shalt thou go in thither. 
    38: But Josue the son of Nun, thy minister, he shall go in for thee: exhort and encourage him, and he shall divide the land by lot to Israel. 
    39: Your children, of whom you said that they should be led away captives, and your sons who know not this day the difference of good and evil, they shall go in: and to them I will give the land, and they shall possess it. 
    40: But return you and go into the wilderness by the way of the Red Sea.
    41: And you answered me: We have sinned against the Lord: we will go up and fight, as the Lord our God hath commanded. And when you went ready armed unto the mountain, 
    42: The Lord said to me: Say to them: Go not up, and fight not, for I am not with you: lest you fall before your enemies. 
    43: I spoke, and you hearkened not: but resisting the commandment of the Lord, and swelling with pride, you went up into the mountain. 
    44: And the Amorrhite that dwelt in the mountains coming out, and meeting you, chased you, as bees do: and made slaughter of you from Seir as far as Horma. 
    45: And when you returned and wept before the Lord, he heard you not, neither would he yield to; your voice.
    46: So you abode in Cadesbarne a long time.

  Chapter 2.

    1: And departing from thence we came into the wilderness that leadeth to the Red Sea, as the Lord had spoken to me: and we compassed mount Seir a long time. 
    2: And the Lord said to me: 
    3: You have compassed this mountain long enough: go toward the north: 
    4: And command thou the people, saying: You shall pass by the borders of your brethren the children of Esau, who dwell in Seir, and they will be afraid of you. 
    5: Take ye then good heed that you stir not against them. For I will not give you of their land so much as the step of one foot can tread upon, because I have given mount Seir to Esau, for a possession.
    6: You shall buy meats of them for money and shall eat: you shall draw waters for money, and shall drink. 
    7: The Lord thy God hath blessed thee in every work of thy hands: the Lord thy God dwelling with thee, knoweth thy journey, how thou hast passed through this great wilderness, for forty years, and thou hast wanted nothing. 
    8: And when we had passed by our brethren the children of Esau, that dwelt in Seir, by the way of the plain from Elath and from Asiongaber, we came to the way that leadeth to the desert of Moab. 
    9: And the Lord said to me: Fight not against the Moabites, neither go to battle against them: for I will not give thee any of their land, because I have given Ar to the children of Lot in possession. 
    10: The Emims first were the inhabitants thereof, a people great, and strong, and so tall, that like the race of the Enacims,
    11: They were esteemed as giants, and were like the sons of the Enacims. But the Moabites call them Emims. 
    12: The Horrhites also formerly dwelt in Seir: who being driven out and destroyed, the children of Esau dwelt there, as Israel did in the land of his possession, which the Lord gave him. 
    13: Then rising up to pass the torrent Zared, we came to it. 
    14: And the time that we journeyed from Cadesbarne till we passed over the torrent Zared, was thirty-eight years: until all the generation of the men that were fit for war was consumed out of the camp, as the Lord had sworn: 
    15: For his hand was against them, that they should perish from the midst of the camp.
    16: And after all the fighting men were dead, 
    17: The Lord spoke to me, saying: 
    18: Thou shalt pass this day the borders of Moab, the city named Ar: 
    19: And when thou comest nigh the frontiers of the children of Ammon, take heed thou fight not against them, nor once move to battle: for I will not give thee of the land of the children of Ammon, because I have given it to the children of Lot for a possession. 
    20: It was accounted a land of giants: and giants formerly dwelt in it, whom the Ammonites call Zomzommims,
    21: A people great and many, and of tall stature, like the Enacims whom the Lord destroyed before their face: and he made them to dwell in their stead, 
    22: As he had done in favour of the children of Esau, that dwell in Seir, destroying the Horrhites, and delivering their land to them, which they possess to this day. 
    23: The Hevites also, that dwelt in Haserim as far as Gaza, were expelled by the Cappadocians: who came out of Cappadocia, and destroyed them, and dwelt in their stead. 
    24: Arise ye, and pass the torrent Arnon: Behold I have delivered into thy hand Sehon king of Hesebon the Amorrhite, and begin thou to possess his land and make war against him. 
    25: This day will I begin to send the dread and fear of thee upon the nations that dwell under the whole heaven: that when they hear thy name they may fear and tremble, and be in pain like women in travail.
    26: So I sent messengers from the wilderness of Cademoth to Sehon the king of Hesebon with peaceable words, saying: 
    27: We will pass through thy land, we will go along by the highway: we will not turn aside neither to the right hand nor to the left. 
    28: Sell us meat for money, that we may eat: give us water for money and so we will drink. We only ask that thou wilt let us pass through, 
    29: As the children of Esau have done, that dwell in Seir, and the Moabites, that abide in Ar: until we come to the Jordan, and pass to the land which the Lord our God will give us. 
    30: And Sehon the king of Hesebon would not let us pass: because the Lord thy God had hardened his spirit, and fixed his heart, that he might be delivered into thy hands, as now thou seest.
    31: And the Lord said to me: Behold I have begun to deliver unto thee Sehon and his land, begin to possess it. 
    32: And Sehon came out to meet us with all his people to fight at Jasa. 
    33: And the Lord our God delivered him to us: and we slew him with his sons and all his people. 
    34: And we took all his cities at that time, killing the inhabitants of them, men and women and children. We left nothing of them: 
    35: Except the cattle which came to the share of them that took them: and the spoils of the cities, which we took:
    36: From Aroer, which is upon the bank of the torrent Amen, a town that is situate in a valley, as far as Galaad. There was not a village or city, that escaped our hands: the Lord our God delivered all unto us: 
    37: Except the land of the children of Ammon, to which we approached not: and all that border upon the torrent Jeboc, and the cities in the mountains, and all the places which the Lord our God forbade us.

  Chapter 3.

    1: Then we turned and went by the way of Basan: and Og the king of Basan came out to meet us with his people to fight in Edrai. 
    2: And the Lord said to me: Fear him not: because he is delivered into thy hand, with all his people and his land: and thou shalt do to him as thou hast done to Sehon king of the Amorrhites, that dwelt in Hesebon. 
    3: So the Lord our God delivered into our hands, Og also the king of Basan, and all his people: and we utterly destroyed them, 
    4: Wasting all his cities at one time, there was not a town that escaped us: sixty cities, all the country of Argob the kingdom of Og in Basan. 
    5: All the cities were fenced with very high walls, and with gates and bars, besides innumerable towns that had no walls.
    6: And we utterly destroyed them, as we had done to Sehon the king of Hesebon, destroying every city, men and women and children: 
    7: But the cattle and the spoils of the cities we took for our prey. 
    8: And we took at that time the land out of the hand of the two kings of the Amorrhites, that were beyond the Jordan: from the torrent Amen unto the mount Hermon, 
    9: Which the Sidonians call Sarion, and the Amorrhites Sanir: 
    10: All the cities that are situate in the plain, and all the land of Galaad and Basan as far as Selcha and Edrai, cities of the kingdom of Og in Basan.
    11: For only Og king of Basan remained of the race of the giants. His bed of iron is shewn, which is in Rabbath of the children of Ammon, being nine cubits long, and four broad after the measure of the cubit of a man's hand. 
    12: And we possessed the land at that time from Aroer, which is upon the bank of the torrent Amen, unto the half of mount Galaad: and I gave the cities thereof to Ruben and Gad. 
    13: And I delivered the other part of Galaad, and all Basan the kingdom of Og to the half tribe of Manasses, all the country of Argob: and all Basan is called the Land of giants. 
    14: Jair the son of Manasses possessed all the country of Argob unto the borders of Gessuri, and Machati. And he called Basan by his own name, Havoth Jair, that is to say, the towns of Jair, until this present day. 
    15: To Machir also I gave Galaad.
    16: And to the tribes of Ruben and Gad I gave of the land of Galaad as far as the torrent Amen, half the torrent, and the confines even unto the torrent Jeboc, which is the border of the children of Ammon: 
    17: And the plain of the wilderness, and the Jordan, and the borders of Cenereth unto the sea of the desert, which is the most salt sea, to the foot of mount Phasga eastward. 
    18: And I commanded you at that time, saying: The Lord your God giveth you this land for an inheritance, go ye well appointed before your brethren the children of Israel, all the strong men of you, 
    19: Leaving your wives and children and cattle. For I know you have much cattle, and they must remain in the cities, which I have delivered to you. 
    20: Until the Lord give rest to your brethren, as he hath given to you: and they also possess the land, which he will give them beyond the Jordan: then shall every man return to his possession, which I have given you.
    21: I commanded Josue also at that time, saying: Thy eyes have seen what the Lord your God hath done to these two kings: so will he do to all the kingdoms to which thou shalt pass. 
    22: Fear them not: for the Lord your God will fight for you. 
    23: And I besought the Lord at that time, saying: 
    24: Lord God, thou hast begun to shew unto thy servant thy greatness, and most mighty hand, for there is no other God either in heaven or earth, that is able to do thy works, or to be compared to thy strength. 
    25: I will pass over therefore, and will see this excellent land beyond the Jordan, and this goodly mountain, and Libanus.
    26: And the Lord was angry with me on your account and heard me not, but said to me: It is enough: speak no more to me of this matter. 
    27: Go up to the top of Phasga, and cast thy eyes round about to the west, and to the north, and to the south, and to the east, and behold it, for thou shalt not pass this Jordan. 
    28: Command Josue, and encourage and strengthen him: for he shall go before this people, and shall divide unto them the land which thou shalt see. 
    29: And we abode in the valley over against the temple of Phogor.

  Chapter 4.

    1: And now, O Israel, hear the commandments and judgments which I teach thee: that doing them, thou mayst live, and entering in mayst possess the land which the Lord the God of your fathers will give you. 
    2: You shall not add to the word that I speak to you, neither shall you take away from it: keep the commandments of the Lord your God which I command you. 
    3: Your eyes have seen all that the Lord hath done against Beelphegor, how he hath destroyed all his worshippers from among you. 
    4: But you that adhere to the Lord your God, are all alive until this present day. 
    5: You know that I have taught you statutes and justices, as the Lord my God hath commanded me: so shall you do them in the land which you shall possess:
    6: And you shall observe, and fulfill them in practice. For this is your wisdom, and understanding in the sight of nations, that hearing all these precepts, they may say: Behold a wise and understanding people, a great nation. 
    7: Neither is there any other nation so great, that hath gods so nigh them, as our God is present to all our petitions. 
    8: For what other nation is there so renowned that hath ceremonies, and just judgments, and all the law, which I will set forth this day before your eyes? 
    9: Keep thyself therefore, and thy soul carefully. Forget not the words that thy eyes have seen, and let them not go out of thy heart all the days of thy life. Thou shalt teach them to thy sons and to thy grandsons, 
    10: From the day in which thou didst stand before the Lord thy God in Horeb, when the Lord spoke to me, saying: Call together the people unto me, that they may hear my words, and may learn to fear me all the time that they live on the earth, and may teach their children.
    11: And you came to the foot of the mount, which burned even unto heaven: and there was darkness, and a cloud and obscurity in it. 
    12: And the Lord spoke to you from the midst of the fire. You heard the voice of his words, but you saw not any form at all. 
    13: And he shewed you his covenant, which he commanded you to do, and the ten words that he wrote in two tables of stone. 
    14: And he commanded me at that time that I should teach you the ceremonies and judgments which you shall do in the land, that you shall possess. 
    15: Keep therefore your souls carefully. You saw not any similitude in the day that the Lord God spoke to you in Horeb from the midst of the fire:
    16: Lest perhaps being deceived you might make you a graven similitude, or image of male or female, 
    17: The similitude of any beasts, that are upon the earth, or of birds, that fly under heaven, 
    18: Or of creeping things, that move on the earth, or of fishes, that abide in the waters under the earth: 
    19: Lest perhaps lifting up thy eyes to heaven, thou see the sun and the moon, and all the stars of heaven, and being deceived by error thou adore and serve them, which the Lord thy God created for the service of all the nations, that are under heaven. 
    20: But the Lord hath taken you and brought you out of the iron furnace of Egypt, to make you his people of inheritance, as it is this present day.
    21: And the Lord was angry with me for your words, and he swore that I should not pass over the Jordan, nor enter into the excellent land, which he will give you. 
    22: Behold I die in this land, I shall not pass over the Jordan: you shall pass, and possess the goodly land. 
    23: Beware lest thou ever forget the covenant of the Lord thy God, which he hath made with thee: and make to thyself a graven likeness of those things which the Lord hath forbid to be made: 
    24: Because the Lord thy God is a consuming fire, a jealous God. 
    25: If you shall beget sons and grandsons, and abide in the land, and being deceived, make to yourselves any similitude, committing evil before the Lord your God, to provoke him to wrath:
    26: I call this day heaven and earth to witness, that you shall quickly perish out of the land, which, when you have passed over the Jordan, you shall possess. You shall not dwell therein long, but the Lord will destroy you, 
    27: And scatter you among all nations, and you shall remain a few among the nations, to which the Lord shall lead you. 
    28: And there you shall serve gods, that were framed with men's hands: wood and stone, that neither see, nor hear, nor eat, nor smell. 
    29: And when thou shalt seek there the Lord thy God, thou shalt find him: yet so, if thou seek him with all thy heart, and all the affliction of thy soul. 
    30: After all the things aforesaid shall and thee, in the latter time thou shalt return to the Lord thy God, and shalt hear his voice.
    31: Because the Lord thy God is a merciful God: he will not leave thee, nor altogether destroy thee, nor forget the covenant, by which he swore to thy fathers. 
    32: Ask of the days of old, that have been before thy time from the day that God created man upon the earth, from one end of heaven to the other end thereof, if ever there was done the like thing, or it hath been known at any time, 
    33: That a people should hear the voice of God speaking out of the midst of fire, as thou hast heard, and lived: 
    34: If God ever did so as to go, and take to himself a nation out of the midst of nations by temptations, signs, and wonders, by fight, and a strong hand, and stretched out arm, and horrible visions according to all the things that the Lord your God did for you in Egypt, before thy eyes. 
    35: That thou mightest know that the Lord he is God, and there is no other besides him.
    36: From heaven he made thee to hear his voice, that he might teach thee. And upon earth he shewed thee his exceeding great fire, and thou didst hear his words out of the midst of the fire, 
    37: Because he loved thy fathers, and chose their seed after them. And he brought thee out of Egypt, going before thee with his great power, 
    38: To destroy at thy coming very great nations, and stronger than thou art, and to bring thee in, and give thee their land for a possession, as thou seest at this present day. 
    39: Know therefore this day, and think in thy heart that the Lord he is God in heaven above, and in the earth beneath, and there is no other. 
    40: Keep his precepts and commandments, which I command thee: that it may be well with thee, and thy children after thee, and thou mayst remain a long time upon the land, which the Lord thy God will give thee.
    41: Then Moses set aside three cities beyond the Jordan at the east side, 
    42: That any one might flee to them who should kill his neighbour unwillingly, and was not his enemy a day or two before, and that he might escape to some one of these cities: 
    43: Bosor in the wilderness, which is situate in the plains of the tribe of Ruben: and Ramoth in Galaad, which is in the tribe of Gad: and Golan in Basan, which is in the tribe of Manasses. 
    44: This is the law, that Moses set before the children of Israel, 
    45: And these are the testimonies and ceremonies and judgments, which he spoke to the children of Israel, when they came out of Egypt,
    46: Beyond the Jordan in the valley over against the temple of Phogor, in the land of Sehon king of the Amorrhites, that dwelt in Hesebon, whom Moses slew. And the children of Israel coming out of Egypt, 
    47: Possessed his land, and the land of Og king of Basan, of the two kings of the Amorrhites, who were beyond the Jordan towards the rising of the sun: 
    48: From Aroer, which is situate upon the bank of the torrent Amen, unto mount Sion, which is also called Hermon, 
    49: All the plain beyond the Jordan at the east side, unto the see of the wilderness, and unto the foot of mount Phasga.

End of day 40.