Day 187:

Reading Proverbs, chapters ['21', '22', '23', '24']:

  Chapter 21.

    1: As the divisions of waters, so the heart of the king is in the hand of the Lord: whithersoever he will he shall turn it. 
    2: Every way of a man seemeth right to himself: but the Lord weigheth the hearts. 
    3: To do mercy and judgment, pleaseth the Lord more than victims. 
    4: Haughtiness of the eyes is the enlarging of the heart: the lamp of the wicked is sin. 
    5: The thoughts of the industrious always bring forth abundance: but every sluggard is always in want.
    6: He that gathereth treasures by a lying tongue, is vain and foolish, and shall stumble upon the snares of death. 
    7: The robberies of the wicked shall be their downfall, because they would not do judgment. 
    8: The perverse way of a man is strange: but as for him that is pure, his work is right. 
    9: It is better to sit in a corner of the housetop, than with a brawling women, and in a common house. 
    10: The soul of the wicked desireth evil, he will not have pity on his neighbour.
    11: When a pestilent man is punished, the little one will be wiser: and if he follow the wise, he will receive knowledge. 
    12: The just considereth seriously the house of the wicked, that he may withdraw the wicked from evil. 
    13: He that stoppeth his ear against the cry of the poor, shall also cry himself and shall not be heard. 
    14: A secret present quencheth anger: and a gift in the bosom the greatest wrath. 
    15: It is joy to the just to do judgment: and dread to them that work iniquity.
    16: A man that shall wander out of the way of doctrine, shall abide in the company of the giants. 
    17: He that loveth good cheer, shall be in want: he that loveth wine, and fat things, shall not be rich. 
    18: The wicked is delivered up for the just: and the unjust for the righteous. 
    19: It is better to dwell in a wilderness, than with a quarrelsome and passionate woman. 
    20: There is a treasure to be desired, and oil in the dwelling of the just: and the foolish man shall spend it.
    21: He that followeth justice and mercy, shall find life, justice, and glory. 
    22: The wise man hath scaled the city of the strong, and hath cast down the strength of the confidence thereof. 
    23: He that keepeth his mouth and his tongue, keepeth his soul from distress. 
    24: The proud and the arrogant is called ignorant, who in anger worketh pride. 
    25: Desires kill the slothful: for his hands have refused to work at all.
    26: He longeth and desireth all the day: but he that is just, will give, and will not cease. 
    27: The sacrifices of the wicked are abominable, because they are offered of wickedness. 
    28: A lying witness shall perish: an obedient man shall speak of victory. 
    29: The wicked man impudently hardeneth his face: but he that is righteous, correcteth his way. 
    30: There is no wisdom, there is no prudence, there is no counsel against the Lord.
    31: The horse is prepared for the day of battle: but the Lord giveth safety.

  Chapter 22.

    1: A good name is better than great riches: and good favour is above silver and gold. 
    2: The rich and poor have met one another: the Lord is the maker of them both. 
    3: The prudent man saw the evil, and hid himself: the simple passed on, and suffered loss. 
    4: The fruit of humility is the fear of the Lord, riches and glory and life. 
    5: Arms and swords are in the way of the perverse: but he that keepeth his own soul departeth far from them.
    6: It is a proverb: A young man according to his way, even when he is old he will not depart from it. 
    7: The rich ruleth over the poor: and the borrower is servant to him that lendeth. 
    8: He that soweth iniquity shall reap evils, and with the rod of his anger he shall be consumed. 
    9: He that is inclined to mercy shall be blessed: for of his bread he hath given to the poor. He that maketh presents shall purchase victory and honour: but he carrieth away the souls of the receivers. 
    10: Cast out the scoffer, and contention shall go out with him, and quarrels and reproaches shall cease.
    11: He that loveth cleanness of heart, for the grace of his lips shall have the king for his friend. 
    12: The eyes of the Lord preserve knowledge: and the words of the unjust are overthrown. 
    13: The slothful man saith: There is a lion without, I shall be slain in the midst of the streets. 
    14: The mouth of a strange woman is a deep pit: he whom the Lord is angry with, shall fall into it. 
    15: Folly is bound up in the heart of a child, and the rod of correction shall drive it away.
    16: He that oppresseth the poor, to increase his own riches, shall himself give to one that is richer, and shall be in need. 
    17: Incline thy ear, and hear the words of the wise: and apply thy heart to my doctrine: 
    18: Which shall be beautiful for thee, if thou keep it in thy bowels, and it shall flow in thy lips: 
    19: That thy trust may be in the Lord, wherefore I have also shewn it to thee this day. 
    20: Behold I have described it to thee three manner of ways, in thoughts and knowledge:
    21: That I might shew thee the certainty, and the words of truth, to answer out of these to them that sent thee. 
    22: Do no violence to the poor, because he is poor: and do not oppress the needy in the gate: 
    23: Because the Lord will judge his cause, and will afflict them that have afflicted his soul. 
    24: Be not a friend to an angry man, and do not walk with a furious man: 
    25: Lest perhaps thou learn his ways, and take scandal to thy soul.
    26: Be not with them that fasten down their hands, and that offer themselves sureties for debts: 
    27: For if thou have not wherewith to restore, what cause is there, that he should take the covering from thy bed? 
    28: Pass not beyond the ancient bounds which thy fathers have set. 
    29: Hast thou seen a man swift in his work? he shall stand before kings, and shall not be before those that are obscure.

  Chapter 23.

    1: When thou shalt sit to eat with a prince, consider diligently what is set before thy face. 
    2: And put a knife to thy throat, if it be so that thou have thy soul in thy own power. 
    3: Be not desirous of his meats, in which is the bread of deceit. 
    4: Labour not to be rich: but set bounds to thy prudence. 
    5: Lift not up thy eyes to riches which thou canst not have: because they shall make themselves wings like those of an eagle, and shall fly towards heaven.
    6: Eat not with an envious man, and desire not his meats: 
    7: Because like a soothsayer, and diviner, he thinketh that which he knoweth not. Eat and drink, will he say to thee: and his mind is not with thee. 
    8: The meats which thou hadst eaten, thou shalt vomit up: and shalt loose thy beautiful words. 
    9: Speak not in the ears of fools: because they will despise the instruction of thy speech. 
    10: Touch not the bounds of little ones: and enter not into the field of the fatherless:
    11: For their near kinsman is strong: and he will judge their cause against thee. 
    12: Let thy heart apply itself to instruction: and thy ears to words of knowledge. 
    13: Withhold not correction from a child: for if thou strike him with the rod, he shall not die. 
    14: Thou shalt beat him with the rod, and deliver his soul from hell. 
    15: My son, if thy mind be wise, my heart shall rejoice with thee:
    16: And my reins shall rejoice, when thy lips shall speak what is right. 
    17: Let not thy heart envy sinners: but be thou in the fear of the Lord all the day long: 
    18: Because thou shalt have hope in the latter end, and thy expectation shall not be taken away. 
    19: Hear thou, my son, and be wise: and guide thy mind in the way. 
    20: Be not in the feasts of great drinkers, nor in their revellings, who contribute flesh to eat:
    21: Because they that give themselves to drinking, and that club together shall be consumed; and drowsiness shall be clothed with rags. 
    22: Hearken to thy father, that beget thee: and despise not thy mother when she is old. 
    23: Buy truth, and do not sell wisdom, and instruction, and understanding. 
    24: The father of the just rejoiceth greatly: he that hath begotten a wise son, shall have joy in him. 
    25: Let thy father, and thy mother be joyful, and let her rejoice that bore thee.
    26: My son, give me thy heart: and let thy eyes keep my ways. 
    27: For a harlot is a deep ditch: and a strange woman is a narrow pit. 
    28: She lieth in wait in the way as a robber, and him whom she shall see unwary, she will kill. 
    29: Who hath woe? whose father hath woe? who hath contentions? who falls into pits? who hath wounds without cause? who hath redness of eyes? 
    30: Surely they that pass their time in wine, and study to drink of their cups.
    31: Look not upon the wine when it is yellow, when the colour thereof shineth in the glass: it goeth in pleasantly, 
    32: But in the end, it will bite like a snake, and will spread abroad poison like a basilisk. 
    33: Thy eyes shall behold strange women, and thy heart shall utter perverse things. 
    34: And thou shalt be as one sleeping in the midst of the sea, and as a pilot fast asleep, when the stern is lost. 
    35: And thou shalt say: They have beaten me, but I was not sensible of pain: they drew me, and I felt not: when shall I awake, and find wine again?

  Chapter 24.

    1: Seek not to be like evil men, neither desire to be with them: 
    2: Because their mind studieth robberies, and their lips speak deceits. 
    3: By wisdom the house shall be built, and by prudence it shall be strengthened. 
    4: By instruction the storerooms shall be filled with all precious and most beautiful wealth. 
    5: A wise man is strong: and a knowing man, stout and valiant.
    6: Because war is managed by due ordering: and there shall be safety where there are many counsels. 
    7: Wisdom is too high for a fool, in the gate he shall not open his mouth. 
    8: He that deviseth to do evils, shall be called a fool. 
    9: The thought of a fool is sin: and the detracter is the abomination of men. 
    10: If thou lose hope being weary in the day of distress, thy strength shall be diminished.
    11: Deliver them that are led to death: and those that are drawn to death forbear not to deliver. 
    12: If thou say: I have not strength enough: he that seeth into the heart, he understandeth, and nothing deceiveth the keeper of thy soul, and he shall render to a man according to his works. 
    13: Eat honey, my son, because it is good, and the honeycomb most sweet to thy throat: 
    14: So also is the doctrine of wisdom to thy soul: which when thou hast found, thou shalt have hope in the end, and thy hope shall not perish. 
    15: Lie not in wait, nor seek after wickedness in the house of the just, nor spoil his rest.
    16: For a just man shall fall seven times and shall rise again: but the wicked shall fall down into evil. 
    17: When thy enemy shall fall, be not glad, and in his ruin let not thy heart rejoice: 
    18: Lest the Lord see, and it displease him, and he turn away his wrath from him. 
    19: Contend not with the wicked, nor seek to be like the ungodly: 
    20: For evil men have no hope of things to come, and the lamp of the wicked shall be put out.
    21: My son, fear the Lord and the king: and have nothing to do with detracters. 
    22: For their destruction shall rise suddenly: and who knoweth the ruin of both? 
    23: These things also to the wise: It is not good to have respect to persons in judgment. 
    24: They that say to the wicked man: Thou art just: shall be cursed by the people, and the tribes shall abhor them. 
    25: They that rebuke him, shall be praised: and a blessing shall come upon them.
    26: He shall kiss the lips, who answereth right words. 
    27: Prepare thy work without, and diligently till thy ground: that afterward thou mayst build thy house. 
    28: Be not witness without cause against thy neighbour: and deceive not any man with thy lips. 
    29: Say not: I will do to him as he hath done to me: I will render to every one according to his work. 
    30: I passed by the field of the slothful man, and by the vineyard of the foolish man:
    31: And behold it was all filled with nettles, and thorns had covered the face thereof, and the stone wall was broken down. 
    32: Which when I had seen, I laid it up in my heart, and by the example I received instruction. 
    33: Thou wilt sleep a little, said I, thou wilt slumber a little, thou wilt fold thy hands a little to rest: 
    34: And poverty shall come to thee as a runner, and beggary as an armed man.

End of day 187.