Day 32:

Reading Numbers, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: 
    2: Command the children of Israel, that they cast out of the camp every leper, and whosoever hath an issue of seed, or is defiled by the dead: 
    3: Whether it be man or woman, cast ye them out of the camp, lest they defile it when I shall dwell with you. 
    4: And the children of Israel did so, and they cast them forth without the camp, as the Lord had spoken to Moses. 
    5: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying:
    6: Say to the children of Israel: When a man or woman shall have committed any of all the sins that men are wont to commit, and by negligence shall have transgressed the commandment of the Lord, and offended, 
    7: They shall confess their sin, and restore the principal itself, and the fifth part over and above, to him against whom they have sinned. 
    8: But if there be no one to receive it, they shall give it to the Lord, and it shall be the priest's, besides the ram that is offered for expiation, to be an atoning sacrifice. 
    9: All the firstfruits also, which the children of Israel offer, belong to the priest: 
    10: And whatsoever is offered into the sanctuary by every one, and is delivered into the hands of the priest, it shall be his.
    11: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: 
    12: Speak to the children of Israel, and thou shalt say to them: The man whose wife shall have gone astray, and contemning her husband, 
    13: Shall have slept with another man, and her husband cannot discover it, but the adultery is secret, and cannot be proved by witnesses, because she was not found in the adultery: 
    14: If the spirit of jealousy stir up the husband against his wife, who either is defiled, or is charged with false suspicion, 
    15: He shall bring her to the priest, and shall offer an oblation for her, the tenth part of a measure of barley meal: he shall not pour oil thereon, nor put frankincense upon it: because it is a sacrifice of jealousy, and an oblation searching out adultery.
    16: The priest therefore shall offer it, and set it before the Lord. 
    17: And he shall take holy water in an earthen vessel, and he shall cast a little earth of the pavement of the tabernacle into it. 
    18: And when the woman shall stand before the Lord, he shall uncover her head, and shall, put on her hands the sacrifice of remembrance, and the oblation of jealousy: and he himself shall hold the most bitter waters, whereon he hath heaped curses with execration. 
    19: And he shall adjure her, and shall say: If another man hath not slept with thee, and if thou be not defiled by forsaking thy husband's bed, these most bitter waters, on which I have heaped curses, shall not hurt thee. 
    20: But if thou hast gone aside from thy husband, and art defiled, and hast lain with another man:
    21: These curses shall light upon thee: The Lord make thee a curse, and an example for all among his people: may he make thy thigh to rot, and may thy belly swell and burst asunder. 
    22: Let the cursed waters enter into thy belly, and may thy womb swell and thy thigh rot. And the woman shall answer, Amen, amen. 
    23: And the priest shall write these curses in a book, and shall wash them out with the most bitter waters, upon which he hath heaped the curses, 
    24: And he shall give them her to drink. And when she hath drunk them up, 
    25: The priest shall take from her hand the sacrifice of jealousy, and shall elevate it before the Lord, and shall put it upon the altar: yet so as first,
    26: To take a handful of the sacrifice of that which is offered, and burn it upon the altar: and so give the most bitter waters to the woman to drink. 
    27: And when she hath drunk them, if she be defiled, and having despised her husband be guilty of adultery, the malediction shall go through her, and her belly swelling, her thigh shall rot: and the woman shall be a curse, and an example to all the people. 
    28: But if she be not defiled, she shall not be hurt, and shall bear children. 
    29: This is the law of jealousy. If a woman hath gone aside from her husband, and be defiled, 
    30: And the husband stirred up by the spirit of jealousy bring her before the Lord, and the priest do to her according to all things that are here written:
    31: The husband shall be blameless, and she shall bear her iniquity.

  Chapter 6.

    1: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: 
    2: Speak to the children of Israel, and thou shalt say to them: When a man, or woman, shall make a vow to be sanctified, and will consecrate themselves to the Lord: 
    3: They shall abstain from wine, and from every thing that may make a man drunk. They shall not drink vinegar of wine, or of any other drink, nor any thing that is pressed out of the grape: nor shall they eat grapes either fresh or dried. 
    4: All the days that they are consecrated to the Lord by vow: they shall eat nothing that cometh of the vineyard, from the raisin even to the kernel. 
    5: All the time of his separation no razor shall pass over his head, until the day be fulfilled of his consecration to the Lord. He shall be holy, and shall let the hair of his head grow.
    6: All the time of his consecration he shall not go in to any dead, 
    7: Neither shall he make himself unclean, even for his father, or for his mother, or for his brother, or for his sister, when they die, because the consecration of his God is upon his head. 
    8: All the days of his separation he shall be holy to the Lord. 
    9: But if any man die suddenly before him: the head of his consecration shall be defiled: and he shall shave it forthwith on the same day of his purification, and again on the seventh day. 
    10: And on the eighth day he shall bring two turtles, or two young pigeons to the priest in the entry of the covenant of the testimony.
    11: And the priest shall offer one for sin, and the other for a holocaust, and shall pray for him, for that he hath sinned by the dead: and he shall sanctify his head that day: 
    12: And shall consecrate to the Lord the days of his separation, offering a lamb of one year for sin: yet so that the former days be made void, because his sanctification was profaned. 
    13: This is the law of consecration. When the days which he had determined by vow shall be expired, he shall bring him to the door of the tabernacle of the covenant, 
    14: And shall offer his oblation to the Lord: one he lamb of a year old without blemish for a holocaust, and one awe lamb of a year old without blemish for a sin offering, and one ram without blemish for a victim of peace offering, 
    15: A basket also of unleavened bread, tempered with oil, and wafers without leaven anointed with oil, and the libations of each:
    16: And the priest shall present them before the Lord, and shall offer both the sin offering and the holocaust. 
    17: But the ram he shall immolate for a sacrifice of peace offering to the Lord, offering at the same time the basket of unleavened bread, and the libations that are due by custom. 
    18: Then shall the hair of the consecration of the Nazarite, be shaved off before the door of the tabernacle of the covenant: and he shall take his hair, and lay it upon the fire, which is under the sacrifice of the peace offerings. 
    19: And shall take the boiled shoulder of the ram, and one unleavened cake out of the basket, and one unleavened wafer, and he shall deliver them into the hands of the Nazarite, after his head is shaven. 
    20: And receiving them again from him, he shall elevate them in the sight of the Lord: and they being sanctified shall belong to the priest, as the breast, which was commanded to be separated, and the shoulder. After this the Nazarite may drink wine.
    21: This is the law of the Nazarite, when he hath vowed his oblation to the Lord in the time of his consecration, besides those things which his hand shall find, according to that which he had vowed in his mind, so shall he do for the fulfilling of his sanctification. 
    22: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: 
    23: Say to Aaron and his sons: Thus shall you bless the children of Israel, and you shall say to them: 
    24: The Lord bless thee, and keep thee. 
    25: The Lord shew his face to thee, and have mercy on thee.
    26: The Lord turn his countenance to thee, and give thee peace. 
    27: And they shall invoke my name upon the children of Israel, and I will bless them.

  Chapter 7.

    1: And it came to pass in the day that Moses had finished the tabernacle, and set it up, and had anointed and sanctified it with all its vessels, the altar likewise and all the vessels thereof, 
    2: The princes of Israel and the heads of the families, in every tribe, who were the rulers of them who had been numbered, offered 
    3: Their gifts before the Lord, six wagons covered, and twelve oxen. Two princes offered one wagon, and each one an ox, and they offered them before the tabernacle. 
    4: And the Lord said to Moses: 
    5: Receive them from them to serve in the ministry of the tabernacle, and thou shalt deliver them to the Levites according to the order of their ministry.
    6: Moses therefore receiving the wagons and the oxen, delivered them to the Levites. 
    7: Two wagons and four oxen he gave to the sons of Gerson, according to their necessity. 
    8: The other four wagons, and eight oxen he gave to the sons of Merari, according to their offices and service, under the hand of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest. 
    9: But to the sons of Caath he gave no wagons or oxen: because they serve in the sanctuary and carry their burdens upon their own shoulders. 
    10: And the princes offered for the dedication of the altar on the day when it was anointed, their oblation before the altar.
    11: And the Lord said to Moses: Let each of the princes one day after another offer their gifts for the dedication of the altar. 
    12: The first day Nahasson the son of Aminadab of the tribe of Juda offered his offering: 
    13: And his offering was a silver dish weighing one hundred and thirty sicles, a silver bowl of seventy sicles according to the weight of the sanctuary, both full of flour tempered with oil for a sacrifice: 
    14: A little mortar of ten sides of gold full of incense: 
    15: An ox of the herd, and a ram, and a lamb of a year old for a holocaust:
    16: And a buck goat for sin: 
    17: And for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of a year old. This was the offering of Nahasson the son of Aminadab. 
    18: The second day Nathanael the son of Suar, prince of the tribe of Issachar, made his offering, 
    19: A silver dish weighing one hundred and thirty sides, a silver bowl of seventy sides, according to the weight of the sanctuary, both full of flour tempered with oil for a sacrifice: 
    20: A little mortar of gold weighing ten sides full of incense:
    21: An ox of the herd, and a ram, and a lamb of a year old for a holocaust: 
    22: And a buck goat for sin: 
    23: And for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five buck goats, five lambs of a year old. This was the offering of Nathanael the son of Suar. 
    24: The third day the prince of the sons of Zabulon, Eliab the son of Helon, 
    25: Offered a silver dish weighing one hundred and thirty sides, a silver bowl of seventy sides by the weight of the sanctuary, both full of flour tempered with oil for a sacrifice:
    26: A little mortar of gold weighing ten sides full of incense: 
    27: An ox of the herd, and a ram, and a lamb of a year old for a holocaust: 
    28: And a buck goat for sin: 
    29: And for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five buck goats, five lambs of a year old. This is the oblation of Eliab the son of Helon. 
    30: The fourth day the prince of the sons of Ruben, Elisur the son of Sedeur,
    31: Offered a silver dish weighing one hundred and thirty sides, a silver bowl of seventy sides according to the weight of the sanctuary, both full of flour tempered with oil for a sacrifice: 
    32: A little mortar of gold weighing ten sides full of incense: 
    33: An ox of the herd, and a ram, and a lamb of a year old, for a holocaust: 
    34: And a buck goat for sin: 
    35: And for victims of peace offerings two oxen, five rams, five buck goats. five lambs of a year old. This was the offering of Elisur the son of Sedeur.
    36: The fifth day the prince of the sons of Simeon, Salamiel the son of Surisaddai, 
    37: Offered a silver dish weighing one hundred and thirty sides, a silver bowl of seventy sides after the weight of the sanctuary, both full of flour tempered with oil for a sacrifice: 
    38: A little mortar of gold weighing ten sides full of incense: 
    39: An ox of the herd, and a ram, and a lamb of a year old for a holocaust: 
    40: And a buck goat for sin:
    41: And for sacrifices of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five buck goats, five lambs of a year old. This was the offering of Salamiel the son of Surisaddai. 
    42: The sixth day the prince of the sons of Gad, Eliasaph the son of Duel, 
    43: Offered a silver dish weighing a hundred and thirty sides, a silver bowl of seventy sides by the weight of the sanctuary, both full of flour tempered with oil for a sacrifice: 
    44: A little mortar of gold weighing ten sides full of incense: 
    45: An ox of the herd, and a ram, and a lamb of a year old for a holocaust:
    46: And a buck goat for sin: 
    47: And for sacrifices of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five buck goats, five lambs of a year old. This was the offering of Eliasaph the son of Duel. 
    48: The seventh day the prince of the sons of Ephraim, Elisama the son Ammiud, 
    49: Offered a silver dish weighing a hundred and thirty sides, a silver bowl of seventy sides according to the weight of the sanctuary, both full of hour tempered with oil for a sacrifice: 
    50: A little mortar of gold weighing ten sides full of incense:
    51: An ox of the herd, and a ram, and a lamb of a year old for a holocaust: 
    52: And a buck goat for sin: 
    53: And for sacrifices of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five buck goats, five lambs of a year old. This was the offering of Elisama the son of Ammiud. 
    54: The eighth day the prince of the sons of Manasses, Gamaliel the son of Phadassur, 
    55: Offered a silver dish weighing a hundred and thirty sicles, a silver bowl of seventy sicles, according to the weight of the sanctuary, both full of flour tempered with oil for a sacrifice:
    56: A little mortar of gold weighing ten sicles full of incense: 
    57: An ox of the herd, and a ram, and a lamb of a year old for a holocaust: 
    58: And a buck goat for sin: 
    59: And for sacrifices of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five buck goats, five lambs of a year old. This was the offering of Gamaliel the son of Phadassur. 
    60: The ninth day the prince of the sons of Benjamin, Abidan the son of Gedeon,
    61: Offered a silver dish weighing a hundred and thirty sides, a silver bowl of seventy sides by the weight of the sanctuary, both full of flour tempered with oil for a sacrifice: 
    62: A little mortar of gold weighing ten sides full of incense: 
    63: An ox of the herd, and a ram, and a lamb of a year old for a, holocaust: 
    64: And a buck goat for sin: 
    65: And for sacrifices of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five buck goats, five lambs of a year old. This was the offering of Abidan the son of Gedeon.
    66: The tenth day the prince of the sons of Dan, Ahiezer the son of Ammisaddai, 
    67: Offered a silver dish weighing a hundred and thirty sides, a silver bowl of seventy sides, according to the weight of the sanctuary, both full of flour tempered with oil for a sacrifice: 
    68: A little mortar of gold weighing ten sides full of incense: 
    69: An ox of the herd, and a ram, and a lamb of a year old for a holocaust: 
    70: And a buck goat for sin:
    71: And for sacrifices of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five buck goats, five lambs of a year old. This was the offering of Ahiezer the son of Ammisaddai. 
    72: The eleventh day the prince of the sons of Aser, Phegiel the son of Ochran, 
    73: Offered a silver dish weighing a hundred and thirty sides, a silver bowl of seventy sides, according to the weight of the sanctuary, both full of flour tempered with oil for a sacrifice: 
    74: A little mortar of gold weighing ten sides full of incense: 
    75: An ox of the herd, and a ram, and a lamb of a year old for a holocaust:
    76: And a buck goat for sin: 
    77: And for sacrifices of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five buck goats, five lambs of a year old. This was the offering of Phegiel the son of Ochran. 
    78: The twelfth day the prince of the sons of Nephtali, Ahira the son of Enan, 
    79: Offered a silver dish weighing a hundred and thirty sides, a silver bowl of seventy sides, according to the weight of the sanctuary, both full of flour tempered with oil for a sacrifice: 
    80: A little mortar of gold weighing ten sides full of incense:
    81: An ox of the herd, and a ram, and a lamb of a year old for a holocaust: 
    82: And a buck goat for sin: 
    83: And for sacrifices of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five buck goats, five lambs of a year old. This was the offering of Ahira the son of Enan. 
    84: These were the offerings made by the princes of Israel in the dedication of the altar, in the day wherein it was consecrated. Twelve dishes of silver: twelve silver bowls: twelve little mortars of gold: 
    85: Each dish weighing a hundred and thirty sides of silver, and each bowl seventy sides: that is, putting all the vessels of silver together, two thousand four hundred sides, by the weight of the sanctuary.
    86: Twelve little mortars of gold full of incense, weighing ten sides apiece, by the weight of the sanctuary: that is, in all a hundred and twenty sides of gold. 
    87: Twelve oxen out of the herd for a holocaust, twelve rams, twelve lambs of a year old, and their libations: twelve buck goats for sin. 
    88: And for sacrifices of peace offerings, oxen twenty-four, rams sixty, buck goats sixty, lambs of a year old sixty. These things were offered in the dedication of the altar, when it was anointed. 
    89: And when Moses entered into the tabernacle of the covenant, to consult the oracle, he heard the voice of one speaking to him from the propitiatory, that was over the ark between the two cherubims, and from this place he spoke to him.

  Chapter 8.

    1: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: 
    2: Speak to Aaron, and thou shalt say to him: When thou shalt place the seven lamps, let the candlestick be set up on the south side. Give orders therefore that the lamps look over against the north, towards the table of the leaves of proposition, over against that part shall they give light, towards which the candlestick looketh. 
    3: And Aaron did so, and he put the lamps upon the candlestick, as the Lord had commanded Moses. 
    4: Now this was the work of the candlestick, it was of beaten gold, both the shaft in the middle, and all that came out of both sides of the branches: according to the pattern which the Lord had shewn to Moses, so he made the candlestick. 
    5: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying:
    6: Take the Levites out of the midst of the children of Israel, and thou shalt purify them, 
    7: According to this rite: Let them be sprinkled with the water of purification, and let them shave all the hairs of their flesh. And when they shall have washed their garments, and are cleansed, 
    8: They shall take an ox of the herd, and for the offering thereof fine flour tempered with oil: and thou shalt take another ox of the herd for a sin offering: 
    9: And thou shalt bring the Levites before the tabernacle of the covenant, calling together all the multitude of the children of Israel: 
    10: And when the Levites are before the Lord, the children of Israel shall put their hands upon them:
    11: And Aaron shall offer the Levites, as a gift in the sight of the Lord from the children of Israel, that they may serve in his ministry. 
    12: The Levites also shall put their hands upon the heads of the oxen, of which thou shalt sacrifice one for sin, and the other for a holocaust to the Lord, to pray for them. 
    13: And thou shalt set the Levites in the sight of Aaron and of his sons, and shalt consecrate them being offered to the Lord, 
    14: And shalt separate them from the midst of the children of Israel, to be mine. 
    15: And afterwards they shall enter into the tabernacle of the covenant, to serve me. And thus shalt thou purify and consecrate them for an oblation of the Lord: for as a gift they were given me by the children of Israel.
    16: I have taken them instead of the firstborn that open every womb in Israel, 
    17: For all the firstborn of the children of Israel, both of men and of beasts, are mine. From the day that I slew every firstborn in the land of Egypt, have I sanctified them to myself: 
    18: And I have taken the Levites for all the firstborn of the children of Israel: 
    19: And have delivered them for a gift to Aaron and his sons out of the midst of the people, to serve me for Israel in the tabernacle of the covenant, and to pray for them, lest there should be a plague among the people, if they should presume to approach unto my sanctuary. 
    20: And Moses and Aaron and all the multitude of the children of Israel did with the Levites all that the Lord had commanded Moses:
    21: And they were purified, and washed their garments. And Aaron lifted them up in the sight of the Lord, and prayed for them, 
    22: That being purified they might go into the tabernacle of the covenant to do their services before Aaron and his sons. As the Lord had commanded Moses touching the Levites, so was it done. 
    23: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: 
    24: This is the law of the Levites: From twenty-five years old and upwards, they shall go in to minister in the tabernacle of the covenant. 
    25: And when they shall have accomplished the fiftieth year of their age, they shall cease to serve:
    26: And they shall be the ministers of their brethren in the tabernacle of the covenant, to keep the things that are committed to their care, but not to do the works. Thus shalt thou order the Levites touching their charge.

End of day 32.