Day 321:

Reading 1-Corinthians, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: If I speak with the tongues of men, and of angels, and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal. 
    2: And if I should have prophecy and should know all mysteries, and all knowledge, and if I should have all faith, so that I could remove mountains, and have not charity, I am nothing. 
    3: And if I should distribute all my goods to feed the poor, and if I should deliver my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing. 
    4: Charity is patient, is kind: charity envieth not, dealeth not perversely; is not puffed up; 
    5: Is not ambitious, seeketh not her own, is not provoked to anger, thinketh no evil;
    6: Rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth with the truth; 
    7: Beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. 
    8: Charity never falleth away: whether prophecies shall be made void, or tongues shall cease, or knowledge shall be destroyed. 
    9: For we know in part, and we prophesy in part. 
    10: But when that which is perfect is come, that which is in part shall be done away.
    11: When I was a child, I spoke as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child. But, when I became a man, I put away the things of a child. 
    12: We see now through a glass in a dark manner; but then face to face. Now I know in part; but then I shall know even as I am known. 
    13: And now there remain faith, hope, and charity, these three: but the greatest of these is charity.

  Chapter 14.

    1: Follow after charity, be zealous for spiritual gifts; but rather that you may prophesy. 
    2: For he that speaketh in a tongue, speaketh not unto men, but unto God: for no man heareth. Yet by the Spirit he speaketh mysteries. 
    3: But he that prophesieth, speaketh to men unto edification, and exhortation, and comfort. 
    4: He that speaketh in a tongue, edifieth himself: but he that prophesieth, edifieth the church. 
    5: And I would have you all to speak with tongues, but rather to prophesy. For greater is he that prophesieth, than he that speaketh with tongues: unless perhaps he interpret, that the church may receive edification.
    6: But now, brethren, if I come to you speaking with tongues, what shall I profit you, unless I speak to you either in revelation, or in knowledge, or in prophecy, or in doctrine? 
    7: Even things without life that give sound, whether pipe or harp, except they give a distinction of sounds, how shall it be known what is piped or harped? 
    8: For if the trumpet give an uncertain sound, who shall prepare himself to the battle? 
    9: So likewise you, except you utter by the tongue plain speech, how shall it be known what is said? For you shall be speaking into the air. 
    10: There are, for example, so many kinds of tongues in this world; and none is without voice.
    11: If then I know not the power of the voice, I shall be to him to whom I speak a barbarian; and he that speaketh, a barbarian to me. 
    12: So you also, forasmuch as you are zealous of spirits, seek to abound unto the edifying of the church. 
    13: And therefore he that speaketh by a tongue, let him pray that he may interpret. 
    14: For if I pray in a tongue, my spirit prayeth, but my understanding is without fruit. 
    15: What is it then? I will pray with the spirit, I will pray also with the understanding; I will sing with the spirit, I will sing also with the understanding.
    16: Else if thou shalt bless with the spirit, how shall he that holdeth the place of the unlearned say, Amen, to thy blessing? because he knoweth not what thou sayest. 
    17: For thou indeed givest thanks well, but the other is not edified. 
    18: I thank my God I speak with all your tongues. 
    19: But in the church I had rather speak five words with my understanding, that I may instruct others also; than ten thousand words in a tongue. 
    20: Brethren, do not become children in sense: but in malice be children, and in sense be perfect.
    21: In the law it is written: In other tongues and other lips I will speak to this people; and neither so will they hear me, saith the Lord. 
    22: Wherefore tongues are for a sign, not to believers, but to unbelievers; but prophecies not to unbelievers, but to believers. 
    23: If therefore the whole church come together into one place, and all speak with tongues, and there come in unlearned persons or infidels, will they not say that you are mad? 
    24: But if all prophesy, and there come in one that believeth not, or an unlearned person, he is convinced of all, he is judged of all. 
    25: The secrets of his heart are made manifest; and so, falling down on his face, he will adore God, affirming that God is among you indeed.
    26: How is it then, brethren? When you come together, every one of you hath a psalm, hath a doctrine, hath a revelation, hath a tongue, hath an interpretation: let all things be done to edification. 
    27: If any speak with a tongue, let it be by two, or at the most by three, and in course, and let one interpret. 
    28: But if there be no interpreter, let him hold his peace in the church, and speak to himself and to God. 
    29: And let the prophets speak, two or three; and let the rest judge. 
    30: But if any thing be revealed to another sitting, let the first hold his peace.
    31: For you may all prophesy one by one; that all may learn, and all may be exhorted: 
    32: And the spirits of the prophets are subject to the prophets. 
    33: For God is not the God of dissension, but of peace: as also I teach in all the churches of the saints. 
    34: Let women keep silence in the churches: for it is not permitted them to speak, but to be subject, as also the law saith. 
    35: But if they would learn any thing, let them ask their husbands at home. For it is a shame for a woman to speak in the church.
    36: Or did the word of God come out from you? Or came it only unto you? 
    37: If any seem to be a prophet, or spiritual, let him know the things that I write to you, that they are the commandments of the Lord. 
    38: But if any man know not, he shall not be known. 
    39: Wherefore, brethren, be zealous to prophesy; and forbid not to speak with tongues. 
    40: But let all things be done decently, and according to order.

  Chapter 15.

    1: Now I make known unto you, brethren, the gospel which I preached to you, which also you have received, and wherein you stand; 
    2: By which also you are saved, if you hold fast after what manner I preached unto you, unless you have believed in vain. 
    3: For I delivered unto you first of all, which I also received: how that Christ died for our sins, according to the scriptures: 
    4: And that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day, according to the scriptures: 
    5: And that he was seen by Cephas; and after that by the eleven.
    6: Then he was seen by more than five hundred brethren at once: of whom many remain until this present, and some are fallen asleep. 
    7: After that, he was seen by James, then by all the apostles. 
    8: And last of all, he was seen also by me, as by one born out of due time. 
    9: For I am the least of the apostles, who am not worthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God. 
    10: But by the grace of God, I am what I am; and his grace in me hath not been void, but I have laboured more abundantly than all they: yet not I, but the grace of God with me.
    11: For whether I, or they, so we preach, and so you have believed. 
    12: Now if Christ be preached, that he arose again from the dead, how do some among you say, that there is no resurrection of the dead? 
    13: But if there be no resurrection of the dead, then Christ is not risen again. 
    14: And if Christ be not risen again, then is our preaching vain, and your faith is also vain. 
    15: Yea, and we are found false witnesses of God: because we have given testimony against God, that he hath raised up Christ; whom he hath not raised up, if the dead rise not again.
    16: For if the dead rise not again, neither is Christ risen again. 
    17: And if Christ be not risen again, your faith is vain, for you are yet in your sins. 
    18: Then they also that are fallen asleep in Christ, are perished. 
    19: If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable. 
    20: But now Christ is risen from the dead, the firstfruits of them that sleep:
    21: For by a man came death, and by a man the resurrection of the dead. 
    22: And as in Adam all die, so also in Christ all shall be made alive. 
    23: But every one in his own order: the firstfruits Christ, then they that are of Christ, who have believed in his coming. 
    24: Afterwards the end, when he shall have delivered up the kingdom to God and the Father, when he shall have brought to nought all principality, and power, and virtue. 
    25: For he must reign, until he hath put all his enemies under his feet.
    26: And the enemy death shall be destroyed last: For he hath put all things under his feet. And whereas he saith, 
    27: All things are put under him; undoubtedly, he is excepted, who put all things under him. 
    28: And when all things shall be subdued unto him, then the Son also himself shall be subject unto him that put all things under him, that God may be all in all. 
    29: Otherwise what shall they do that are baptized for the dead, if the dead rise not again at all? why are they then baptized for them? 
    30: Why also are we in danger every hour?
    31: I die daily, I protest by your glory, brethren, which I have in Christ Jesus our Lord. 
    32: If (according to man) I fought with beasts at Ephesus, what doth it profit me, if the dead rise not again? Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we shall die. 
    33: Be not seduced: Evil communications corrupt good manners. 
    34: Awake, ye just, and sin not. For some have not the knowledge of God, I speak it to your shame. 
    35: But some man will say: How do the dead rise again? or with what manner of body shall they come?
    36: Senseless man, that which thou sowest is not quickened, except it die first. 
    37: And that which thou sowest, thou sowest not the body that shall be; but bare grain, as of wheat, or of some of the rest. 
    38: But God giveth it a body as he will: and to every seed its proper body. 
    39: All flesh is not the same flesh: but one is the flesh of men, another of beasts, another of birds, another of fishes. 
    40: And there are bodies celestial, and bodies terrestrial: but, one is the glory of the celestial, and another of the terrestrial.
    41: One is the glory of the sun, another the glory of the moon, and another the glory of the stars. For star differeth from star in glory. 
    42: So also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in corruption, it shall rise in incorruption. 
    43: It is sown in dishonour, it shall rise in glory. It is sown in weakness, it shall rise in power. 
    44: It is sown a natural body, it shall rise a spiritual body. If there be a natural body, there is also a spiritual body, as it is written: 
    45: The first man Adam was made into a living soul; the last Adam into a quickening spirit.
    46: Yet that was not first which is spiritual, but that which is natural; afterwards that which is spiritual. 
    47: The first man was of the earth, earthly: the second man, from heaven, heavenly. 
    48: Such as is the earthly, such also are the earthly: and such as is the heavenly, such also are they that are heavenly. 
    49: Therefore as we have borne the image of the earthly, let us bear also the image of the heavenly. 
    50: Now this I say, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot possess the kingdom of God: neither shall corruption possess incorruption.
    51: Behold, I tell you a mystery. We shall all indeed rise again: but we shall not all be changed. 
    52: In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet: for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall rise again incorruptible: and we shall be changed. 
    53: For this corruptible must put on incorruption; and this mortal must put on immortality. 
    54: And when this mortal hath put on immortality, then shall come to pass the saying that is written: Death is swallowed up in victory. 
    55: O death, where is thy victory? O death, where is thy sting?
    56: Now the sting of death is sin: and the power of sin is the law. 
    57: But thanks be to God, who hath given us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. 
    58: Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye steadfast and unmoveable; always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labour is not in vain in the Lord.

  Chapter 16.

    1: Now concerning the collections that are made for the saints, as I have given order to the churches of Galatia, so do ye also. 
    2: On the first day of the week let every one of you put apart with himself, laying up what it shall well please him; that when I come, the collections be not then to be made. 
    3: And when I shall be with you, whomsoever you shall approve by letters, them will I send to carry your grace to Jerusalem. 
    4: And if it be meet that I also go, they shall go with me. 
    5: Now I will come to you, when I shall have passed through Macedonia. For I shall pass through Macedonia.
    6: And with you perhaps I shall abide, or even spend the winter: that you may bring me on my way whithersoever I shall go. 
    7: For I will not see you now by the way, for I trust that I shall abide with you some time, if the Lord permit. 
    8: But I will tarry at Ephesus until Pentecost. 
    9: For a great door and evident is opened unto me: and many adversaries. 
    10: Now if Timothy come, see that he be with you without fear, for he worketh the work of the Lord, as I also do.
    11: Let no man therefore despise him, but conduct ye him on his way in peace: that he may come to me. For I look for him with the brethren. 
    12: And touching our brother Apollo, I give you to understand, that I much entreated him to come unto you with the brethren: and indeed it was not his will at all to come at this time. But he will come when he shall have leisure. 
    13: Watch ye, stand fast in the faith, do manfully, and be strengthened. 
    14: Let all your things be done in charity. 
    15: And I beseech you, brethren, you know the house of Stephanas, and of Fortunatus, and of Achaicus, that they are the firstfruits of Achaia, and have dedicated themselves to the ministry of the saints:
    16: That you also be subject to such, and to every one that worketh with us, and laboureth. 
    17: And I rejoice in the presence of Stephanas, and Fortunatus, and Achaicus, because that which was wanting on your part, they have supplied. 
    18: For they have refreshed both my spirit and yours. Know them, therefore, that are such. 
    19: The churches of Asia salute you. Aquila and Priscilla salute you much in the Lord, with the church that is in their house, with whom I also lodge. 
    20: All the brethren salute you. Salute one another with a holy kiss.
    21: The salutation of me Paul, with my own hand. 
    22: If any man love not our Lord Jesus Christ, let him be anathema, maranatha. 
    23: The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. 
    24: My charity be with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen.

End of day 321.