Day 287:

Reading Matthew, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: The same day Jesus going out of the house, sat by the sea side. 
    2: And great multitudes were gathered unto him, so that he went up into a boat and sat: and all the multitude stood on the shore. 
    3: And he spoke to them many things in parables, saying: Behold the sower went forth to sow. 
    4: And whilst he soweth some fell by the way side, and the birds of the air came and ate them up. 
    5: And other some fell upon stony ground, where they had not much earth: and they sprung up immediately, because they had no deepness of earth.
    6: And when the sun was up they were scorched: and because they had not root, they withered away. 
    7: And others fell among thorns: and the thorns grew up and choked them. 
    8: And others fell upon good ground: and they brought forth fruit, some an hundredfold, some sixtyfold, and some thirtyfold. 
    9: He that hath ears to hear, let him hear. 
    10: And his disciples came and said to him: Why speakest thou to them in parables?
    11: Who answered and said to them: Because to you it is given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven: but to them it is not given. 
    12: For he that hath, to him shall be given, and he shall abound: but he that hath not, from him shall be taken away that also which he hath. 
    13: Therefore do I speak to them in parables: because seeing they see not, and hearing they hear not, neither do they understand. 
    14: And the prophecy of Isaias is fulfilled in them, who saith: By hearing you shall hear, and shall not understand: and seeing you shall see, and shall not perceive. 
    15: For the heart of this people is grown gross, and with their ears they have been dull of hearing, and their eyes they have shut: lest at any time they should see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and be converted, and I should heal them.
    16: But blessed are your eyes, because they see, and your ears, because they hear. 
    17: For, amen, I say to you, many prophets and just men have desired to see the things that you see, and have not seen them, and to hear the things that you hear and have not heard them. 
    18: Hear you therefore the parable of the sower. 
    19: When any one heareth the word of the kingdom, and understandeth it not, there cometh the wicked one, and catcheth away that which was sown in his heart: this is he that received the seed by the way side. 
    20: And he that received the seed upon stony ground, is he that heareth the word, and immediately receiveth it with joy.
    21: Yet hath he not root in himself, but is only for a time: and when there ariseth tribulation and persecution because of the word, he is presently scandalized. 
    22: And he that received the seed among thorns, is he that heareth the word, and the care of this world and the deceitfulness of riches choketh up the word, and he becometh fruitless. 
    23: But he that received the seed upon good ground, is he that heareth the word, and understandeth, and beareth fruit, and yieldeth the one an hundredfold, and another sixty, and another thirty. 
    24: Another parable he proposed to them, saying: The kingdom of heaven is likened to a man that sowed good seeds in his field. 
    25: But while men were asleep, his enemy came and oversowed cockle among the wheat and went his way.
    26: And when the blade was sprung up, and had brought forth fruit, then appeared also the cockle. 
    27: And the servants of the goodman of the house coming said to him: Sir, didst thou not sow good seed in thy field? whence then hath it cockle? 
    28: And he said to them: An enemy hath done this. And the servants said to him: Wilt thou that we go and gather it up? 
    29: And he said: No, lest perhaps gathering up the cockle, you root up the wheat also together with it. 
    30: Suffer both to grow until the harvest, and in the time of the harvest I will say to the reapers: Gather up first the cockle, and bind it into bundles to burn, but the wheat gather ye into my barn.
    31: Another parable he proposed unto them, saying: The kingdom of heaven is like to a grain of mustard seed, which a man took and sowed in his field. 
    32: Which is the least indeed of all seeds; but when it is grown up, it is greater than all herbs, and becometh a tree, so that the birds of the air come, and dwell in the branches thereof. 
    33: Another parable he spoke to them: The kingdom of heaven is like to leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal, until the whole was leavened. 
    34: All these things Jesus spoke in parables to the multitudes: and without parables he did not speak to them. 
    35: That it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophet, saying: I will open my mouth in parables, I will utter things hidden from the foundation of the world.
    36: Then having sent away the multitudes, he came into the house, and his disciples came to him, saying: Expound to us the parable of the cockle of the field. 
    37: Who made answer and said to them: He that soweth the good seed, is the Son of man. 
    38: And the field, is the world. And the good seed are the children of the kingdom. And the cockle, are the children of the wicked one. 
    39: And the enemy that sowed them, is the devil. But the harvest is the end of the world. And the reapers are the angels. 
    40: Even as cockle therefore is gathered up, and burnt with fire: so shall it be at the end of the world.
    41: The Son of man shall send his angels, and they shall gather out of his kingdom all scandals, and them that work iniquity. 
    42: And shall cast them into the furnace of fire: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. 
    43: Then shall the just shine as the sun, in the kingdom of their Father. He that hath ears to hear, let him hear. 
    44: The kingdom of heaven is like unto a treasure hidden in a field. Which a man having found, hid it, and for joy thereof goeth, and selleth all that he hath, and buyeth that field. 
    45: Again the kingdom of heaven is like to a merchant seeking good pearls.
    46: Who when he had found one pearl of great price, went his way, and sold all that he had, and bought it. 
    47: Again the kingdom of heaven is like to a net cast into the sea, and gathering together of all kind of fishes. 
    48: Which, when it was filled, they drew out, and sitting by the shore, they chose out the good into vessels, but the bad they cast forth. 
    49: So shall it be at the end of the world. The angels shall go out, and shall separate the wicked from among the just. 
    50: And shall cast them into the furnace of fire: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
    51: Have ye understood all these things? They say to him: Yes. 
    52: He said unto them: Therefore every scribe instructed in the kingdom of heaven, is like to a man that is a householder, who bringeth forth out of his treasure new things and old. 
    53: And it came to pass: when Jesus had finished these parables, he passed from thence. 
    54: And coming into his own country, he taught them in their synagogues, so that they wondered and said: How came this man by this wisdom and miracles? 
    55: Is not this the carpenter's son? Is not his mother called Mary, and his brethren James, and Joseph, and Simon, and Jude:
    56: And his sisters, are they not all with us? Whence therefore hath he all these things? 
    57: And they were scandalized in his regard. But Jesus said to them: A prophet is not without honour, save in his own country, and in his own house. 
    58: And he wrought not many miracles there, because of their unbelief.

  Chapter 14.

    1: At the time Herod the Tetrarch heard the fame of Jesus. 
    2: And he said to his servants: This is John the Baptist: he is risen from the dead, and therefore mighty works shew forth themselves in him. 
    3: For Herod had apprehended John and bound him, and put him into prison, because of Herodias, his brother's wife. 
    4: For John said to him: It is not lawful for thee to have her. 
    5: And having a mind to put him to death, he feared the people: because they esteemed him as a prophet.
    6: But on Herod's birthday, the daughter of Herodias danced before them: and pleased Herod. 
    7: Whereupon he promised with an oath, to give her whatsoever she would ask of him. 
    8: But she being instructed before by her mother, said: Give me here in a dish the head of John the Baptist. 
    9: And the king was struck sad: yet because of his oath, and for them that sat with him at table, he commanded it to be given. 
    10: And he sent, and beheaded John in the prison.
    11: And his head was brought in a dish: and it was given to the damsel, and she brought it to her mother. 
    12: And his disciples came and took the body, and buried it, and came and told Jesus. 
    13: Which when Jesus had heard, he retired from thence by boat, into a desert place apart, and the multitudes having heard of it, followed him on foot out of the cities. 
    14: And he coming forth saw a great multitude, and had compassion on them, and healed their sick. 
    15: And when it was evening, his disciples came to him, saying: This is a desert place, and the hour is now past: send away the multitudes, that going into the towns, they may buy themselves victuals.
    16: But Jesus said to them, They have no need to go: give you them to eat. 
    17: They answered him: We have not here, but five loaves, and two fishes. 
    18: He said to them: Bring them hither to me. 
    19: And when he had commanded the multitudes to sit down upon the grass, he took the five loaves and the two fishes, and looking up to heaven, he blessed, and brake, and gave the loaves to his disciples, and the disciples to the multitudes. 
    20: And they did all eat, and were filled. And they took up what remained, twelve full baskets of fragments.
    21: And the number of them that did eat, was five thousand men, besides women and children. 
    22: And forthwith Jesus obliged his disciples to go up into the boat, and to go before him over the water, till he dismissed the people. 
    23: And having dismissed the multitude, he went into a mountain alone to pray. And when it was evening, he was there alone. 
    24: But the boat in the midst of the sea was tossed with the waves: for the wind was contrary. 
    25: And in the fourth watch of the night, he came to them walking upon the sea.
    26: And they seeing him walk upon the sea, were troubled, saying: It is an apparition. And they cried out for fear. 
    27: And immediately Jesus spoke to them, saying: Be of good heart: it is I, fear ye not. 
    28: And Peter making answer, said: Lord, if it be thou, bid me come to thee upon the waters. 
    29: And he said: Come. And Peter going down out of the boat, walked upon the water to come to Jesus. 
    30: But seeing the wind strong, he was afraid: and when he began to sink, he cried out, saying: Lord, save me.
    31: And immediately Jesus stretching forth his hand took hold of him, and said to him: O thou of little faith, why didst thou doubt? 
    32: And when they were come up into the boat, the wind ceased. 
    33: And they that were in the boat came and adored him, saying: Indeed thou art the Son of God. 
    34: And having passed the water, they came into the country of Genesar. 
    35: And when the men of that place had knowledge of him, they sent into all that country, and brought to him all that were diseased.
    36: And they besought him that they might touch but the hem of his garment. And as many as touched, were made whole.

  Chapter 15.

    1: Then came to him from Jerusalem scribes and Pharisees, saying: 
    2: Why do thy disciples transgress the tradition of the ancients? For they wash not their hands when they eat bread. 
    3: But he answering, said to them: Why do you also transgress the commandment of God for your tradition? For God said: 
    4: Honour thy father and mother: And: He that shall curse father or mother, let him die the death. 
    5: But you say: Whosoever shall say to father or mother, The gift whatsoever proceedeth from me, shall profit thee.
    6: And he shall not honour his father or his mother: and you have made void the commandment of God for your tradition. 
    7: Hypocrites, well hath Isaias prophesied of you, saying: 
    8: This people honoureth me with their lips: but their heart is far from me. 
    9: And in vain do they worship me, teaching doctrines and commandments of men. 
    10: And having called together the multitudes unto him, he said to them: Hear ye and understand.
    11: Not that which goeth into the mouth defileth a man: but what cometh out of the mouth, this defileth a man. 
    12: Then came his disciples, and said to him: Dost thou know that the Pharisees, when they heard this word, were scandalized? 
    13: But he answering them, said: Every plant which my heavenly Father hath not planted, shall be rooted up. 
    14: Let them alone: they are blind, and leaders of the blind. And if the blind lead the blind, both will fall into the pit. 
    15: And Peter answering, said to him: Expound to us this parable.
    16: But he said: Are you also yet without understanding? 
    17: Do you not understand, that whatsoever entereth into the mouth, goeth into the belly, and is cast out into the privy? 
    18: But the things which proceed out of the mouth, come forth from the heart, and those things defile a man. 
    19: For from the heart come forth evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false testimonies, blasphemies. 
    20: These are the things that defile a man. But to eat with unwashed hands doth not defile a man.
    21: And Jesus went from thence, and retired into the coasts of Tyre and Sidon. 
    22: And behold a woman of Canaan who came out of those coasts, crying out, said to him: Have mercy on me, O Lord, thou son of David: my daughter is grieviously troubled by the devil. 
    23: Who answered her not a word. And his disciples came and besought him, saying: Send her away, for she crieth after us: 
    24: And he answering, said: I was not sent but to the sheep that are lost of the house of Israel. 
    25: But she came and adored him, saying: Lord, help me.
    26: Who answering, said: It is not good to take the bread of the children, and to cast it to the dogs. 
    27: But she said: Yea, Lord; for the whelps also eat of the crumbs that fall from the table of their masters. 
    28: Then Jesus answering, said to her: O woman, great is thy faith: be it done to thee as thou wilt: and her daughter was cured from that hour. 
    29: And when Jesus had passed away from thence, he came nigh the sea of Galilee. And going up into a mountain, he sat there. 
    30: And there came to him great multitudes, having with them the dumb, the blind, the lame, the maimed, and many others: and they cast them down at his feet, and he healed them:
    31: So that the multitudes marvelled seeing the dumb speak, the lame walk, and the blind see: and they glorified the God of Israel. 
    32: And Jesus called together his disciples, and said: I have compassion on the multitudes, because they continue with me now three days, and have not what to eat, and I will not send them away fasting, lest they faint in the way. 
    33: And the disciples say unto him: Whence then should we have so many loaves in the desert, as to fill so great a multitude? 
    34: And Jesus said to them: How many loaves have you? But they said: Seven, and a few little fishes. 
    35: And he commanded the multitude to sit down upon the ground.
    36: And taking the seven loaves and the fishes, and giving thanks, he brake, and gave to his disciples, and the disciples to the people. 
    37: And they did all eat, and had their fill. And they took up seven baskets full, of what remained of the fragments. 
    38: And they that did eat, were four thousand men, beside children and women. 
    39: And having dismissed the multitude, he went up into a boat, and came into the coasts of Magedan.

  Chapter 16.

    1: And there came to him the Pharisees and Sadducees tempting: and they asked him to shew them a sign from heaven. 
    2: But he answered and said to them: When it is evening, you say, It will be fair weather, for the sky is red. 
    3: And in the morning: Today there will be a storm, for the sky is red and lowering. You know then how to discern the face of the sky: and can you not know the signs of the times? 
    4: A wicked and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign: and a sign shall not be given it, but the sign of Jonas the prophet. And he left them, and went away. 
    5: And when his disciples were come over the water, they had forgotten to take bread.
    6: Who said to them: Take heed and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees. 
    7: But they thought within themselves, saying: Because we have taken no bread. 
    8: And Jesus knowing it, said: Why do you think within yourselves, O ye of little faith, for that you have no bread? 
    9: Do you not yet understand, neither do you remember the five loaves among five thousand men, and how many baskets you took up? 
    10: Nor the seven loaves among four thousand men, and how many baskets you took up?
    11: Why do you not understand that it was not concerning the bread I said to you: Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees? 
    12: Then they understood that he said not that they should beware of the leaven of bread, but of the doctrine of the Pharisees and Sadducees. 
    13: And Jesus came into the quarters of Caesarea Philippi: and he asked his disciples, saying: Whom do men say that the Son of man is? 
    14: But they said: Some John the Baptist, and other some Elias, and others Jeremias, or one of the prophets. 
    15: Jesus saith to them: But whom do you say that I am?
    16: Simon Peter answered and said: Thou art Christ, the Son of the living God. 
    17: And Jesus answering, said to him: Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-Jona: because flesh and blood hath not revealed it to thee, but my Father who is in heaven. 
    18: And I say to thee: That thou art Peter; and upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. 
    19: And I will give to thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven. And whatsoever thou shalt bind upon earth, it shall be bound also in heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt loose upon earth, it shall be loosed also in heaven. 
    20: Then he commanded his disciples, that they should tell no one that he was Jesus the Christ.
    21: From that time Jesus began to shew to his disciples, that he must go to Jerusalem, and suffer many things from the ancients and scribes and chief priests, and be put to death, and the third day rise again. 
    22: And Peter taking him, began to rebuke him, saying: Lord, be it far from thee, this shall not be unto thee. 
    23: Who turning, said to Peter: Go behind me, Satan, thou art a scandal unto me: because thou savourest not the things that are of God, but the things that are of men. 
    24: Then Jesus said to his disciples: If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me. 
    25: For he that will save his life, shall lose it: and he that shall lose his life for my sake, shall find it.
    26: For what doth it profit a man, if he gain the whole world, and suffer the loss of his own soul? Or what exchange shall a man give for his soul? 
    27: For the Son of man shall come in the glory of his Father with his angels: and then will he render to every man according to his works. 
    28: Amen I say to you, there are some of them that stand here, that shall not taste death, till they see the Son of man coming in his kingdom.

End of day 287.