Day 84:

Reading 2-Kings, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: And Eliseus the prophet called one of the sons of the prophets, slid said to him: Gird up thy loins, and take this little bottle of oil in thy hand, and go to Ramoth Galaad. 
    2: And when thou art come thither, thou shalt see Jehu the son of Josaphat the son of Namsi: and going in thou shalt make him rise up from amongst his brethren, and carry him into an inner chamber. 
    3: Then taking the little bottle of oil, thou shalt pour it on his head, and shalt say: Thus saith the Lord: I have anointed thee king over Israel. And thou shalt open the door and flee, and shalt not stay there. 
    4: So the young man, the servant of the prophet, went awry to Ramoth Galaad, 
    5: And went in thither: and behold the captains of the army were sitting: and he said: I have a word to thee, O prince. And Jehu said: Unto whom of us all? And he said: To thee, O prince.
    6: And he arose, and went into the chamber: and he poured the oil upon his head, and said: Thus saith the Lord God of Israel: I have anointed thee king over Israel, the people of the Lord. 
    7: And thou shalt cut off the house of Achab thy master, and I will revenge the blood of my servants the prophets, and the blood of all the servants of the Lord at the hand of Jezabel. 
    8: And I will destroy all the house of Achab, and I will cut off from Achab him that pisseth against the wall, and him that is shut up, and the meanest in Israel. 
    9: And I will make the house of Achab like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nabat, and like the house of Baasa the son of Ahias. 
    10: And the dogs shall eat Jezabel in the field of Jezrahel, and there shall be no one to bury her. And he opened the door and fled.
    11: Then Jehu went forth to the servants of his lord: and they said to him: Are all things well? why came this mad man to thee? And he said to them: You know the man, and what he said. 
    12: But they answered: It is false, but rather do thou tell us. And he said to them: Thus and thus did he speak to me: and he said: Thus saith the Lord: I have anointed thee king over Israel. 
    13: Then they made haste and taking every man his garment laid it under his feet, after the manner of a judgment seat, and they sounded the trumpet, and said: Jehu is king. 
    14: So Jehu the son of Josaphat the son of Namsi conspired against Joram. Now Joram had besieged Ramoth Galaad, he and all Israel fighting with Hazael king of Syria: 
    15: And was returned to be healed in Jezrahel of his wounds, for the Syrians had wounded him, when he fought with Hazael king of Syria. And Jehu said: If it please you, let no man go forth or flee out of the city, lest he go, and tell in Jezrahel.
    16: And he got up, and went into Jezrahel: for Joram was sick there, and Ochozias king of Juda was come down to visit Joram. 
    17: The watchmen therefore, that stood upon the tower of Jezrahel, saw the troop of Jehu coming, and said: I see a troop. And Joram said: Take a chariot, and send to meet them, and let him that goeth say: Is all well? 
    18: So there went one in a chariot to meet him, and said: Thus saith the king: Are all things peaceable? And Jehu said: What hast thou to do with peace? go behind and follow me. And the watchman told, saying: The messenger came to them, but he returneth not. 
    19: And he sent a second chariot of horses: and he came to them, and said: Thus saith the king: Is there peace? And Jehu said: What hast thou to do with peace? pass, and follow me. 
    20: And the watchman told, saying: He came even to them, but returneth not: and the driving is like the driving of Jehu the son of Namsi, for he drives furiously.
    21: And Joram said: Make ready the chariot. And they made ready his chariot, and Joram king of Israel, and Ochozias king of Juda went out, each in his chariot, and they went out to meet Jehu, and met him in the field of Naboth the Jezrahelite. 
    22: And when Joram saw Jehu, he said: Is there peace, Jehu? And he answered: What peace? so long as the fornications of Jezabel thy mother, and her many sorceries are in their vigour. 
    23: And Joram turned his hand, and fleeing, said to Ochozias: There is treachery, Ochozias. 
    24: But Jehu bent Iris bow with his hand, and shot Joram between the shoulders: and the arrow went out through his heart, and immediately he fell in his chariot. 
    25: And Jehu said to Badacer his captain: Take him, and cast him into the field of Naboth the Jezrahelite: for I remember when I and thou sitting in a chariot followed Achab this man's father, that the Lord laid this burden upon him, saying:
    26: If I do not requite thee in this field, saith the Lord, for the blood of Naboth, and for the blood of his children, which I saw yesterday, saith the Lord. So now take him, and cast him into the field, according to the word of the Lord. 
    27: But Ochozias king of Juda seeing this, fled by the way of the garden house: and Jehu pursued him, and said: Strike him also in his chariot. And they struck him in the going up to Gaver, which is by Jeblaam: and he fled into Mageddo, and died there. 
    28: And his servants laid him upon his chariot, and carried him to Jerusalem: and they buried him in his sepulchre with his fathers in the city of David. 
    29: In the eleventh year of Joram the son of Achab, Ochozias reigned over Juda, 
    30: And Jehu came into Jezrahel. But Jezabel hearing of his coming in, painted her face with stibic stone, and adorned her head, and looked out of a window
    31: At Jehu coming in at the gate, and said: Can there be peace for Zambri, that hath killed his master? 
    32: And Jehu lifted up his face to the window, and said: Who is this? And two or three eunuchs bowed down to him. 
    33: And he said to them: Throw her down headlong: and they threw her down, and the wall was sprinkled with her blood, and the hoofs of the horses trod upon her. 
    34: And when he was come in, to eat, and to drink, he said: Go, and see after that cursed woman, and bury her: because she is a king's daughter. 
    35: And when they went to bury her, they found nothing but the skull, and the feet, and the extremities of her hands.
    36: And coming back they told him. And Jehu said: It is the word of the Lord, which he spoke by his servant Elias the Thesbite, saying: In the field of Jezrahel the dogs shall eat the flesh of Jezabel, 
    37: And the flesh of Jezabel shall be as dung upon the face of the earth in the field of Jezrahel, so that they who pass by shall say: Is this that same Jezabel?

  Chapter 10.

    1: And Achab had seventy sons in Samaria: so Jehu wrote letters, and sent to Samaria, to the chief men of the city, and to the ancients, and to them that brought up Achab's children, saying: 
    2: As soon as you receive these letters, ye that have your master's sons, and chariots, and horses, and fenced cities, and armour, 
    3: Choose the best, and him that shall please you most of your master's sons, and set him on his father's throne, and fight for the house of your master. 
    4: But they were exceedingly afraid, and said: Behold two kings could not stand before him, and how shall we be able to resist? 
    5: Therefore the overseers of the house, and the rulers of the city, and the ancients, and the tutors sent to Jehu, saying: We are thy servants, whatsoever thou shalt command us we will do, neither will we make us a king: do thou all that pleaseth thee.
    6: And he wrote letters the second time to them, saying: If you be mine, and will obey me, take the heads of the sons of your master, and come to me to Jezrahel by tomorrow this time. Now the king's sons, being seventy men, were brought up with the chief men of the city. 
    7: And when the letters came to them, they took the king's sons, and slew seventy persons, and put their heads in baskets, and sent them to him to Jezrahel. 
    8: And a messenger came, and told him, saying: They have brought the heads of the king's sons. And he said: Lay ye them in two heaps by the entering in of the gate until the morning. 
    9: And when it was light, he went out, and standing said to all the people: You are just: if I conspired against my master, and slew him, who hath slain all these? 
    10: See therefore now that there hath not fallen to the ground any of the words of the Lord, which the Lord spoke concerning the house of Achab, and the Lord hath done that which he spoke in the hand of his servant Elias.
    11: So Jehu slew all that were left of the house of Achab in Jezrahel, and all his chief men, and his friends, and his priests, till there were no remains left of him. 
    12: And he arose, and went to Samaria: and when he was come to the shepherds' cabin in the way, 
    13: He met with the brethren of Ochozias king of Juda, and he said to them: Who are you? And they answered: We are the brethren of Ochozias, and are come down to salute the sons of the king, and the sons of the queen. 
    14: And he said: Take them alive. And they took them alive, and killed them at the pit by the cabin, two and forty men, and he left not any of them. 
    15: And when he was departed thence, he found Jonadab the son of Rechab coming to meet him, and he blessed him. And he said to him: Is thy heart right as my heart is with thy heart? And Jonadab said: It is. If it be, said he, give me thy hand. He gave him his hand. And he lifted him up to him into the chariot,
    16: And he said to him: Come with me, and see my zeal for the Lord. So he made him ride in his chariot, 
    17: And brought him into Samaria. And he slew all that were left of Achab in Samaria, to a man, according to the word of the Lord, which he spoke by Elias. 
    18: And Jehu gathered together all the people, and said to them: Achab worshipped Baal a little, but I will worship him more. 
    19: Now therefore call to me all the prophets of Baal, and all his servants, and all his priests: let none be wanting, for I have a great sacrifice to offer to Baal: whosoever shall be wanting shall not live. Now Jehu did this craftily, that he might destroy the worshippers of Baal. 
    20: And he said: Proclaim a festival for Baal. And he called,
    21: And he sent into all the borders of Israel, and all the servants of Baal came: there was not one left that did not come. And they went into the temple of Baal: and the house of Baal was filled, from one end to the other. 
    22: And he said to them that were over the wardrobe: Bring forth garments for all the servants of Baal. And they brought them forth garments. 
    23: And Jehu and Jonadab the son of Rechab went to the temple of Baal, and said to the worshippers of Baal: Search, and see that there be not any with you of the servants of the Lord, but that there be the servants of Baal only. 
    24: And they went in to offer sacrifices and burnt offerings: but Jehu had prepared him fourscore men without, and said to them: If any of the men escape, whom I have brought into your hands, he that letteth him go shall answer life for life. 
    25: And it came to pass, when the burnt offering was ended, that Jehu commanded his soldiers and captains, saying: Go in, and kill them, let none escape. And the soldiers and captains slew them with the edge of the sword, and cast them out: and they went into the city of the temple of Baal,
    26: And brought the statue out of Baal's temple, and burnt it, 
    27: And broke it in pieces. They destroyed also the temple of Baal, and made a jakes in its place unto this day. 
    28: So Jehu destroyed Baal out of Israel: 
    29: But yet he departed not from the sills of Jeroboam the son of Nabat, who made Israel to sin, nor did he forsake the golden calves that were in Bethel and Dan. 
    30: And the Lord said to Jehu: Because thou hast diligently executed that which was right and pleasing in my eyes, and hast done to the house of Achab according to all that was in my heart: thy children shall sit upon the throne of Israel to the fourth Generation.
    31: But Jehu took no heed to walk in the law of the Lord the God of Israel with all his heart: for he departed not from the sins of Jeroboam, who had made Israel to sin. 
    32: In those days the Lord began to he weary of Israel: and Hazael ravaged them in all the coasts of Israel, 
    33: From the Jordan eastward, all the land of Galaad, and Gad, and Ruben, and Manasses, from Aroer, which is upon the torrent Amen, and Galaad, and Basan. 
    34: But the rest of the acts of Jehu, and all that he did, and his strength, are they not written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Israel? 
    35: And Jehu slept with his fathers, and they buried him in Samaria: and Joachaz his son reigned in his stead.
    36: And the time that Jehu reigned over Israel, in Samaria, was eight and twenty years.

  Chapter 11.

    1: And Athalia the mother of Ochozias seeing that her son was dead, arose, and slew all the royal seed. 
    2: But Josaba the daughter of king Joram, sister of Ochozias, took Joas the son of Ochozias, and stole him from among the king's sons that were slain, out of the bedchamber with his nurse: and hid him from the face of Athalia, so that he was not slain. 
    3: And he was with her six years hid in the house of the Lord. And Athalia reigned over the land. 
    4: And in the seventh year Joiada sent, and taking the centurions and the soldiers, brought them in to him into the temple of the Lord, and made a covenant with them: and taking an oath of them in the house of the Lord, shewed them the king's son: 
    5: And he commanded them, saying: This is the thing that you must do:
    6: Let a third part of you go in on the sabbath, and keep the watch of the king's house. And let a third part be at the gate of Sur: and let a third part be at the gate behind the dwelling of the shieldbearers: and you shall keep the watch of the house of Messa. 
    7: But let two parts of you, all that go forth on the sabbath, keep the watch of the house of the Lord about the king. 
    8: And you shall compass him round about, having weapons in your hands: and if any man shall enter the precinct of the temple, let him be slain: and you shall be with the king coming in and going out. 
    9: And the centurions did according to all things that Joiada the priest had commanded them: and taking every one their men, that went in on the sabbath, with them that went out on the sabbath, came to Joiada the priest. 
    10: And he gave them the spears, and the arms of king David, which were in the house of the Lord.
    11: And they stood having every one their weapons in their hands, from the right side of the temple, unto the left side of the altar, and of the temple, about the king. 
    12: And he brought forth the king's son, and put the diadem upon him, and the testimony: and they made him king, and anointed him: and clapping their hands. they said, God save the king. 
    13: And Athalia heard the noise of the people running: and going in to the people into the temple of the Lord, 
    14: She saw the king standing upon a tribunal, as the manner was, and the singers, and the trumpets near him, and all the people of the land rejoicing, and sounding the trumpets: and she rent her garments, and cried: A conspiracy, a conspiracy. 
    15: But Joiada commended the centurions that were over the army, and said to them: Have her forth without the precinct of the temple, and whosoever shall follow her, let him be slain with the sword. For the priest had said: Let her not be slain in the temple of the Lord.
    16: And they laid hands on her: and thrust her out by the way by which the horses go in, by the palace, and she was slain there. 
    17: And Joiada made a covenant between the Lord, and the king, and the people, that they should be the people of the Lord, and between the king and the people. 
    18: And all the people of the land went into the temple of Baal, and broke down his altars, and his images they broke in pieces thoroughly: they slew also Mathan the priest of Baal before the altar. And the priest set guards in the house of the Lord. 
    19: And he took the centurions, and the bands of the Cerethi and the Phelethi, and all the people of the land, and they brought the king from the house of the Lord: and they came by the way of the gate of the shieldbearers into the palace. and he sat on the throne of the kings. 
    20: And all the people of the land rejoiced, and the city was quiet: but Athalia was slain with the sword in the king's house.
    21: Now Joas was seven years old, when he began to reign.

  Chapter 12.

    1: In the seventh year of Jehu Joas began to reign: and he reigned forty years in Jerusalem. The name of his mother was Sebia of Bersabee. 
    2: And Joas did that which was right before the Lord all the days that Joiada the priest taught him. 
    3: But yet he took not away the high places: for the people still sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places. 
    4: And Joas said to the priests: O All the money of the sanctified things, which is brought into the temple of the Lord by those that pass, which is offered for the price of a soul, and which of their own accord, and of their own free heart they bring into the temple of the Lord: 
    5: Let the priests take it according to their order, and repair the house, wheresoever they shall see any thing that wanteth repairing.
    6: Now till the three and twentieth year of king Joas, the priests did not make the repairs of the temple. 
    7: And king Joas called Joiada the high priest and the priests, saying to them: Why do you not repair the temple? Take you therefore money no more according to your order, but restore it for the repairing of the temple. 
    8: And the priests were forbidden to take any more money of the people, and to make the repairs of the house. 
    9: And Joiada the high priest took a chest and bored a hole in the top, and set it by the altar at the right hand of them that came into the house of the Lord, and the priests that kept the doors put therein all the money that was brought to the temple of the Lord. 
    10: And when they saw that there was very much money in the chest, the king's scribe and the high priest came up, and poured it out, and counted the money that was found in the house of the Lord:
    11: And they gave it out by number and measure into the hands of them that were over the builders of the house of the Lord: and they laid it out to the carpenters, and the masons that wrought in the house of the Lord, 
    12: And made the repairs: and to them that cut stones, and to buy timber, and stones, to be hewed, that the repairs of the house of the Lord might be completely finished, and wheresoever there was need of expenses to uphold the house. 
    13: But there were not made of the same money for the temple of the Lord, bowls, or fleshhooks, or censers, or trumpets, or any vessel of gold and silver, of the money that was brought into the temple of the Lord. 
    14: For it was given to them that did the work, that the temple of the Lord might be repaired. 
    15: And they reckoned not with the men that received the money to distribute it to the workmen, but they bestowed it faithfully.
    16: But the money for trespass, and the money for sins, they brought not into the temple of the Lord, because it was for the priests. 
    17: Then Hazael king of Syria went up and fought against Geth, and took it and set his face to go up to Jerusalem. 
    18: Wherefore Joas king of Juda took all the sanctified things, which Josaphat, and Joram, and Ochozias his fathers the kings of Juda had dedicated to holy uses, and which he himself had offered: and all the silver that could be found in the treasures of the temple of the Lord, and in the king's palace: and sent it to Hazael king of Syria, and he went off from Jerusalem. 
    19: And the rest of the acts of Joas, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Juda? 
    20: And his servants arose, and conspired among themselves, and slew Joas in the house of Mello in the descent of Sella.
    21: For Josachar the son of Semaath, and Jozabad the son of Somer his servant struck him, and he died: and they buried him with his fathers in the city of David, and Amasias his son reigned in his stead.

End of day 84.