Day 162:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['73', '74', '75', '76']:

  Chapter 73.

    1: Understanding for Asaph. O God, why hast thou cast us off unto the end: why is thy wrath enkindled against the sheep of thy pasture? 
    2: Remember thy congregation, which thou hast possessed from the beginning. The sceptre of thy inheritance which thou hast redeemed: mount Sion in which thou hast dwelt. 
    3: Lift up thy hands against their pride unto the end; see what things the enemy hath done wickedly in the sanctuary. 
    4: And they that hate thee have made their boasts, in the midst of thy solemnity. They have set up their ensigns for signs, 
    5: And they knew not both in the going out and on the highest top. As with axes in a wood of trees,
    6: They have cut down at once the gates thereof, with axe and hatchet they have brought it down. 
    7: They have set fire to thy sanctuary: they have defiled the dwelling place of thy name on the earth. 
    8: They said in their heart, the whole kindred of them together: Let us abolish all the festival days of God from the land. 
    9: Our signs we have not seen, there is now no prophet: and he will know us no more. 
    10: How long, O God, shall the enemy reproach: is the adversary to provoke thy name for ever?
    11: Why dost thou turn away thy hand: and thy right hand out of the midst of thy bosom for ever? 
    12: But God is our king before ages: he hath wrought salvation in the midst of the earth. 
    13: Thou by thy strength didst make the sea firm: thou didst crush the heads of the dragons in the waters. 
    14: Thou hast broken the heads of the dragon: thou hast given him to be meat for the people of the Ethiopians. 
    15: Thou hast broken up the fountains and the torrents: thou hast dried up the Ethan rivers.
    16: Thine is the day, and thine is the night: thou hast made the morning light and the sun. 
    17: Thou hast made all the borders of the earth: the summer and the spring were formed by thee. 
    18: Remember this, the enemy hath reproached the Lord: and a foolish people hath provoked thy name. 
    19: Deliver not up to beasts the souls that confess to thee: and forget not to the end the souls of thy poor. 
    20: Have regard to thy covenant: for they that are the obscure of the earth have been filled with dwellings of iniquity.
    21: Let not the humble be turned away with confusion: the poor and needy shall praise thy name. 
    22: Arise, O God, judge thy own cause: remember thy reproaches with which the foolish man hath reproached thee all the day. 
    23: Forget not the voices of thy enemies: the pride of them that hate thee ascendeth continually.

  Chapter 74.

    1: Unto the end, corrupt not, a psalm of a canticle for Asaph. 
    2: We will praise thee, O God: we will praise, and we will call upon thy name. We will relate thy wondrous works: 
    3: When I shall take a time, I will judge justices. 
    4: The earth is melted, and all that dwell therein: I have established the pillars thereof. 
    5: I said to the wicked: Do not act wickedly: and to the sinners: Lift not up the horn.
    6: Lift not up your horn on high: speak not iniquity against God. 
    7: For neither from the east, nor from the west, nor from the desert hills: 
    8: For God is the judge. One he putteth down, and another he lifteth up: 
    9: For in the hand of the Lord there is a cup of strong wine full of mixture. And he hath poured it out from this to that: but the dregs thereof are not emptied: all the sinners of the earth shall drink. 
    10: But I will declare for ever: I will sing to the God of Jacob.
    11: And I will break all the horns of sinners: but the horns of the just shall be exalted.

  Chapter 75.

    1: Unto the end, in praises, a psalm for Asaph: a canticle to the Assyrians. 
    2: In Judea God is known: his name is great in Israel. 
    3: And his place is in peace: and his abode in Sion: 
    4: There hath he broken the powers of bows, the shield, the sword, and the battie. 
    5: Thou enlightenest wonderfully from the everlasting hills.
    6: All the foolish of heart were troubled. They have slept their sleep; and all the men of riches have found nothing in their hands. 
    7: At thy rebuke, O God of Jacob, they have all slumbered that mounted on horseback. 
    8: Thou art terrible, and who shall resist thee? from that time thy wrath. 
    9: Thou hast caused judgment to be heard from heaven: the earth trembled and was still, 
    10: When God arose in judgment, to save all the meek of the earth.
    11: For the thought of man shall give praise to thee: and the remainders of the thought shall keep holiday to thee. 
    12: Vow ye, and pay to the Lord your God: all you that are round about him bring presents. To him that is terrible, 
    13: Even to him who taketh away the spirit of princes: to the terrible with the kings of the earth.

  Chapter 76.

    1: Unto the end, for Idithun, a psalm of Asaph. 
    2: I cried to the Lord with my voice; to God with my voice, and he gave ear to me. 
    3: In the day of my trouble I sought God, with my hands lifted up to him in the night, and I was not deceived. My soul refused to be comforted: 
    4: I remembered God, and was delighted, and was exercised, and my spirit swooned away. 
    5: My eyes prevented the watches: I was troubled, and I spoke not.
    6: I thought upon the days of old: and I had in my mind the eternal years. 
    7: And I meditated in the night with my own heart: and I was exercised and I swept my spirit. 
    8: Will God then cast off for ever? or will he never be more favourable again? 
    9: Or will he cut off his mercy for ever, from generation to generation? 
    10: Or will God forget to shew mercy? or will he in his anger shut up his mercies?
    11: And I said, Now have I begun: this is the change of the right hand of the most High. 
    12: I remembered the works of the Lord: for I will be mindful of thy wonders from the beginning. 
    13: And I will meditate on all thy works: and will be employed in thy inventions. 
    14: Thy way, O God, is in the holy place: who is the great God like our God? 
    15: Thou art the God that dost wonders. Thou hast made thy power known among the nations:
    16: With thy arm thou hast redeemed thy people the children of Jacob and of Joseph. 
    17: The waters saw thee, O God, the waters saw thee: and they were afraid, and the depths were troubled. 
    18: Great was the noise of the waters: the clouds sent out a sound. For thy arrows pass: 
    19: The voice of thy thunder in a wheel. Thy lightnings enlightened the world: the earth shook and trembled. 
    20: Thy way is in the sea, and thy paths in many waters: and thy footsteps shall not be known.
    21: Thou hast conducted thy people like sheep, by the hand of Moses and Aaron.

End of day 162.