Day 160:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['65', '66', '67', '68']:

  Chapter 65.

    1: Unto the end, a canticle of a psalm of the resurrection. Shout with joy to God, all the earth, 
    2: Sing ye a psalm to his name; give glory to his praise. 
    3: Say unto God, How terrible are thy works, O Lord! in the multitude of thy strength thy enemies shall lie to thee. 
    4: Let all the earth adore thee, and sing to thee: let it sing a psalm to thy name. 
    5: Come and see the works of God; who is terrible in his counsels over the sons of men.
    6: Who turneth the sea into dry land, in the river they shall pass on foot: there shall we rejoice in him. 
    7: Who by his power ruleth for ever: his eyes behold the nations; let not them that provoke him be exalted in themselves. 
    8: O bless our God, ye Gentiles: and make the voice of his praise to be heard. 
    9: Who hath set my soul to live: and hath not suffered my feet to be moved: 
    10: For thou, O God, hast proved us: thou hast tried us by fire, as silver is tried.
    11: Thou hast brought us into a net, thou hast laid afflictions on our back: 
    12: Thou hast set men over our heads. We have passed through fire and water, and thou hast brought us out into a refreshment. 
    13: I will go into thy house with burnt offerings: I will pay thee my vows, 
    14: Which my lips have uttered, And my mouth hath spoken, when I was in trouble. 
    15: I will offer up to thee holocausts full of marrow, with burnt offerings of rams: I will offer to thee bullocks with goats.
    16: Come and hear, all ye that fear God, and I will tell you what great things he hath done for my soul. 
    17: I cried to him with my mouth: and I extolled him with my tongue. 
    18: If I have looked at iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. 
    19: Therefore hath God heard me, and hath attended to the voice of my supplication. 
    20: Blessed be God, who hath not turned away my prayer, nor his mercy from me.

  Chapter 66.

    1: Unto the end, in, hymns, a psalm of a canticle for David. 
    2: May God have mercy on us, and bless us: may he cause the light of his countenance to shine upon us, and may he have mercy on us. 
    3: That we may know thy way upon earth: thy salvation in all nations. 
    4: Let people confess to thee, O God: let all people give praise to thee. 
    5: Let the nations be glad and rejoice: for thou judgest the people with justice, and directest the nations upon earth.
    6: Let the people, O God, confess to thee: let all the people give praise to thee: 
    7: The earth hath yielded her fruit. May God, our God bless us, 
    8: May God bless us: and all the ends of the earth fear him.

  Chapter 67.

    1: Unto the end, a psalm of a canticle for David himself. 
    2: Let God arise, and let his enemies be scattered: and let them that hate him flee from before his face. 
    3: As smoke vanisheth, so let them vanish away: as wax melteth before the fire, so let the wicked perish at the presence of God. 
    4: And let the just feast, and rejoice before God: and be delighted with gladness. 
    5: Sing ye to God, sing a psalm to his name, make a way for him who ascendeth upon the west: the Lord is his name. Rejoice ye before him: but the wicked shall be troubled at his presence,
    6: Who is the father of orphans, and the judge of widows. God in his holy place: 
    7: God who maketh men of one manner to dwell in a house: Who bringeth out them that were bound in strength; in like manner them that provoke, that dwell in sepulchres. 
    8: O God, when thou didst go forth in the sight of thy people, when thou didst pass through the desert: 
    9: The earth was moved, and the heavens dropped at the presence of the God of Sina, at the presence of the God of Israel. 
    10: Thou shalt set aside for thy inheritance a free rain, O God: and it was weakened, but thou hast made it perfect.
    11: In it shall thy animals dwell; in thy sweetness, O God, thou hast provided for the poor. 
    12: The Lord shall give the word to them that preach good tidings with great power. 
    13: The king of powers is of the beloved, of the beloved; and the beauty of the house shall divide spoils. 
    14: If you sleep among the midst of lots, you shall be as the wings of a dove covered with silver, and the hinder parts of her back with the paleness of gold. 
    15: When he that is in heaven appointeth kings over her, they shall be whited with snow in Selmon.
    16: The mountain of God is a fat mountain. A curdled mountain, a fat mountain. 
    17: Why suspect, ye curdled mountains? A mountain in which God is well pleased to dwell: for there the Lord shall dwell unto the end. 
    18: The chariot of God is attended by ten thousands; thousands of them that rejoice: the Lord is among them in Sina, in the holy place. 
    19: Thou hast ascended on high, thou hast led captivity captive; thou hast received gifts in men. Yea for those also that do not believe, the dwelling of the Lord God. 
    20: Blessed be the Lord day by day: the God of our salvation will make our journey prosperous to us.
    21: Our God is the God of salvation: and of the Lord, of the Lord are the issues from death. 
    22: But God shall break the heads of his enemies: the hairy crown of them that walk on in their sins. 
    23: The Lord said: I will turn them from Basan, I will turn them into the depth of the sea: 
    24: That thy foot may be dipped in the blood of thy enemies; the tongue of thy dogs be red with the same. 
    25: They have seen thy goings, O God, the goings of my God: of my king who is in his sanctuary.
    26: Princes went before joined with singers, in the midst of young damsels playing on timbrels. 
    27: In the churches bless ye God the Lord, from the fountains of Israel. 
    28: There is Benjamin a youth, in ecstasy of mind. The princes of Juda are their leaders: the princes of Zabulon, the princes of Nephthali. 
    29: Command thy strength, O God: confirm, O God, what thou hast wrought in us. 
    30: From thy temple in Jerusalem, kings shall offer presents to thee.
    31: Rebuke the wild beasts of the reeds, the congregation of bulls with the kine of the people; who seek to exclude them who are tried with silver. Scatter thou the nations that delight in wars: 
    32: Ambassadors shall come out of Egypt: Ethiopia shall soon stretch out her hands to God. 
    33: Sing to God, ye kingdoms of the earth: sing ye to the Lord: Sing ye to God, 
    34: Who mounteth above the heaven of heavens, to the east. Behold he will give to his voice the voice of power: 
    35: Give ye glory to God for Israel, his magnificence, and his power is in the clouds.
    36: God is wonderful in his saints: the God of Israel is he who will give power and strength to his people. Blessed be God.

  Chapter 68.

    1: Unto the end, for them that shall be changed; for David. 
    2: SAVE me, O God: for the waters are come in even unto my soul. 
    3: I stick fast in the mire of the deep: and there is no sure standing. I am come into the depth of the sea: and a tempest hath overwhelmed me. 
    4: I have laboured with crying; my jaws are become hoarse: my eyes have failed, whilst I hope in my God. 
    5: They are multiplied above the hairs of my head, who hate me without cause. My enemies are grown strong who have wrongfully persecuted me: then did I pay that which I took not away.
    6: O God, thou knowest my foolishness; and my offences are not hidden from thee: 
    7: Let not them be ashamed for me, who look for thee, O Lord, the Lord of hosts. Let them not be confounded on my account, who seek thee, O God of Israel. 
    8: Because for thy sake I have borne reproach; shame hath covered my face. 
    9: I am become a stranger to my brethren, and an alien to the sons of my mother. 
    10: For the zeal of thy house hath eaten me up: and the reproaches of them that reproached thee are fallen upon me.
    11: And I covered my soul in fasting: and it was made a reproach to me. 
    12: And I made haircloth my garment: and I became a byword to them. 
    13: They that sat in the gate spoke against me: and they that drank wine made me their song. 
    14: But as for me, my prayer is to thee, O Lord; for the time of thy good pleasure, O God. In the multitude of thy mercy hear me, in the truth of thy salvation. 
    15: Draw me out of the mire, that I may not stick fast: deliver me from them that hate me, and out of the deep waters.
    16: Let not the tempest of water drown me, nor the deep swallow me up: and let not the pit shut her mouth upon me. 
    17: Hear me, O Lord, for thy mercy is kind; look upon me according to the multitude of thy tender mercies. 
    18: And turn not away thy face from thy servant: for I am in trouble, hear me speedily. 
    19: Attend to my soul, and deliver it: save me because of my enemies. 
    20: Thou knowest my reproach, and my confusion, and my shame.
    21: In thy sight are all they that afflict me; my heart hath expected reproach and misery. And I looked for one that would grieve together with me, but there was none: and for one that would comfort me, and I found none. 
    22: And they gave me gall for my food, and in my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink. 
    23: Let their table become as a snare before them, and a recompense, and a stumblingblock. 
    24: Let their eyes be darkened that they see not; and their back bend thou down always. 
    25: Pour out thy indignation upon them: and let thy wrathful anger take hold of them.
    26: Let their habitation be made desolate: and let there be none to dwell in their tabernacles. 
    27: Because they have persecuted him whom thou hast smitten; and they have added to the grief of my wounds. 
    28: Add thou iniquity upon their iniquity: and let them not come into thy justice. 
    29: Let them be blotted out of the book of the living; and with the just let them not be written. 
    30: But I am poor and sorrowful: thy salvation, O God, hath set me up.
    31: I will praise the name of God with a canticle: and I will magnify him with praise. 
    32: And it shall please God better than a young calf, that bringeth forth horns and hoofs. 
    33: Let the poor see and rejoice: seek ye God, and your soul shall live. 
    34: For the Lord hath heard the poor: and hath not despised his prisoners. 
    35: Let the heavens and the earth praise him; the sea, and every thing that creepeth therein.
    36: For God will save Sion, and the cities of Juda shall be built up. And they shall dwell there, and acquire it by inheritance. 
    37: And the seed of his servants shall possess it; and they that love his name shall dwell therein.

End of day 160.