Day 204:

Reading Sirach, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: God created man of the earth, and made him after his own image. 
    2: And he turned him into it again, and clothed him with strength according to himself. 
    3: He gave him the number of his days and time, and gave him power over all things that are upon the earth. 
    4: He put the fear of him upon all flesh, and he had dominion over beasts and fowls. 
    5: He created of him a helpmate like to himself: he gave them counsel, and a tongue, and eyes, and ears, and a heart to devise: and he filled them with the knowledge of understanding.
    6: He created in them the science of the spirit, he filled their heart with wisdom, and shewed them both good and evil. 
    7: He set his eye upon their hearts to shew them the greatness of his works: 
    8: That they might praise the name which he hath sanctified: and glory in his wondrous acts, that they might declare the glorious things of his works. 
    9: Moreover he gave them instructions, and the law of life for an inheritance. 
    10: He made an everlasting covenant with them, and he shewed them his justice and judgments.
    11: And their eye saw the majesty of his glory. and their ears heard his glorious voice, and he said to them: Beware of all iniquity. 
    12: And he gave to every one of them commandment concerning his neighbour. 
    13: Their ways are always before him, they are not hidden from his eyes. 
    14: Over every nation he set a ruler. 
    15: And Israel was made the manifest portion of God.
    16: And all their works are as the sun in the sight of God: and his eyes are continually upon their ways. 
    17: Their covenants were not hid by their iniquity, and all their iniquities are in the sight of God. 
    18: The alms of a man is as a signet with him, and shall preserve the grace of a man as the apple of the eye: 
    19: And afterward he shall rise up, and shall render them their reward, to every one upon their own head, and shall turn them down into the bowels of the earth. 
    20: But to the penitent he hath given the way of justice, and he hath strengthened them that were fainting in patience, and hath appointed to them the lot of truth.
    21: Turn to the Lord, and forsake thy sins: 
    22: Make thy prayer before the face of the Lord, and offend less. 
    23: Return to the Lord, and turn away from thy injustice, and greatly hate abomination. 
    24: And know the justices and judgments of God, and stand firm in the lot set before thee, and in prayer to the most high God. 
    25: Go to the side of the holy age, with them that live and give praise to God.
    26: Tarry not in the error of the ungodly, give glory before death. Praise perisheth from the dead as nothing. 
    27: Give thanks whilst thou art living, whilst thou art alive and in health thou shalt give thanks, and shalt praise God, and shalt glory in his mercies. 
    28: How great is the mercy of the Lord, and his forgiveness to them that turn to him! 
    29: For all things cannot be in men, because the son of man is not immortal, and they are delighted with the vanity of evil. 
    30: What is brighter than the sun; yet it shall be eclipsed. Or what is more wicked than that which flesh and blood hath invented? and this shall be reproved.
    31: He beholdeth the power of the height of heaven: and all men are earth and ashes.

  Chapter 18.

    1: He that liveth for ever created all things together. God only shall be justified, and he remaineth an invincible king for ever. 
    2: Who is able to declare his works? 
    3: For who shall search out his glorious acts? 
    4: And who shall shew forth the power of his majesty? or who shall be able to declare his mercy? 
    5: Nothing may be taken away, nor added, neither is it possible to find out the glorious works of God:
    6: When a man hath done, then shall he begin: and when he leaveth off, he shall be at a loss. 
    7: What is man, and what is his grace? and what is his good, or what is his evil? 
    8: The number of the days of men at the most are a hundred years: as a drop of water of the sea are they esteemed: and as a pebble of the sand, so are a few years compared to eternity. 
    9: Therefore God is patient in them, and poureth forth his mercy upon them. 
    10: He hath seen the presumption of their heart that it is wicked, and hath known their end that it is evil.
    11: Therefore hath he filled up his mercy in their favour, and hath shewn them the way of justice. 
    12: The compassion of man is toward his neighbour: but the mercy of God is upon all flesh. 
    13: He hath mercy, and teacheth, and correcteth, as a shepherd doth his flock. 
    14: He hath mercy on him that receiveth the discipline of mercy, and that maketh haste in his judgments. 
    15: My son, in thy good deeds, make no complaint, and when thou givest any thing, add not grief by an evil word.
    16: Shall not the dew assuage the heat? so also the good word is better than the gift. 
    17: Lo, is not a word better than a gift? but both are with a justified man. 
    18: A fool will upbraid bitterly: and a gift of one ill taught consumeth the eyes. 
    19: Before judgment prepare thee justice, and learn before thou speak. 
    20: Before sickness take a medicine, and before judgment examine thyself, and thou shalt find mercy in the sight of God.
    21: Humble thyself before thou art sick, and in the time of sickness shew thy conversation. 
    22: Let nothing hinder thee from praying always, and be not afraid to be justified even to death: for the reward of God continueth for ever. 
    23: Before prayer prepare thy soul: and be not as a man that tempteth God. 
    24: Remember the wrath that shall be at the last day, and the time of repaying when he shall turn away his face. 
    25: Remember poverty in the time of abundance, and the necessities of poverty in the day of riches.
    26: From the morning until the evening the time shall be changed, and all these are swift in the eyes of God. 
    27: A wise man will fear in every thing, and in the days of sins will beware of sloth. 
    28: Every man of understanding knoweth wisdom, and will give praise to him that findeth her. 
    29: They that were of good understanding in words, have also done wisely themselves: and have understood truth and justice, and have poured forth proverbs and judgments. 
    30: Go not after thy lusts, but turn away from thy own will.
    31: If thou give to thy soul her desires, she will make thee a joy to thy enemies. 
    32: Take no pleasure in riotous assemblies, be they ever so small: for their concertation is continual. 
    33: Make not thyself poor by borrowing to contribute to feasts when thou hast nothing in thy purse: for thou shalt be an enemy to thy own life.

  Chapter 19.

    1: A workman that is a drunkard shall not be rich: and he that contemneth small things, shall fall by little and little. 
    2: Wine and women make wise men fall off, and shall rebuke the prudent. 
    3: And he that joineth himself to harlots, will be wicked. Rottenness and worms shall inherit him, and he shall be lifted up for a greater example, and his soul shall be taken away out of the number. 
    4: He that is hasty to give credit, is light of heart, and shall be lessened: and he that sinneth against his own soul, shall be despised. 
    5: He that rejoiceth in iniquity, shall be censured, and he that hateth chastisement, shall have less life: and he that hateth babbling, extinguisheth evil.
    6: He that sinneth against his own soul, shall repent: and he that is delighted with wickedness, shall be condemned. 
    7: Rehearse not again a wicked and harsh word, and thou shalt not fare the worse. 
    8: Tell not thy mind to friend or foe: and if there be a sin with thee, disclose it not. 
    9: For he will hearken to thee, and will watch thee, and as it were defending thy sin he will hate thee, and so will he be with thee always. 
    10: Hast thou heard a word against thy neighbour? let it die within thee, trusting that it will not burst thee.
    11: At the hearing of a word the fool is in travail, as a woman groaning. in the bringing forth a child. 
    12: As an arrow that sticketh in a man's thigh: so is a word in the heart of a fool. 
    13: Reprove a friend, lest he may not have understood, and say: I did it not: or if he did it, that he may do it no more. 
    14: Reprove thy neighbour, for it may be he hath not said it: and if he hath said it, that he may not say it again. 
    15: Admonish thy friend: for there is often a fault committed.
    16: And believe not every word. There is one, that slippeth with the tongue, but not from his heart. 
    17: For who is there that hath not offended with his tongue? Admonish thy neighbour before thou threaten him. 
    18: And give place to the fear of the most High: for the fear of God is all wisdom, and therein is to fear God, and the disposition of the law is in all wisdom. 
    19: But the learning of wickedness is not wisdom: and the device of sinners is not prudence. 
    20: There is a subtle wickedness, and the same is detestable: and there is a man that is foolish, wanting in wisdom.
    21: Better is a man that hath less wisdom, and wanteth understanding, with the fear of God, than he that aboundeth in understanding, and transgresseth the law of the most High. 
    22: There is an exquisite subtilty, and the same is unjust. 
    23: And there is one that uttereth an exact word telling the truth. There is one that humbleth himself wickedly, and his interior is full of deceit: 
    24: And there is one that submitteth himself exceedingly with a great lowliness: and there is one that casteth down his countenance, and maketh as if he did not see that which is unknown: 
    25: And if he be hindered from sinning for want of power, if he shall find opportunity to do evil, he will do it.
    26: A man is known by his look, and a wise man, when thou meetest him, is known by his countenance. 
    27: The attire of the body, and the laughter of the teeth, and the gait of the man, shew what he is. 
    28: There is a lying rebuke in the anger of an injurious man: and there is a judgment that is not allowed to be good: and there is one that holdeth his peace, he is wise.

  Chapter 20.

    1: How much better is it to reprove, than to be angry, and not to hinder him that confesseth in prayer. 
    2: The lust of an eunuch shall devour a young maiden: 
    3: So is he that by violence executeth unjust judgment. 
    4: How good is it, when thou art reproved, to shew repentance! for so thou shalt escape wilful sin. 
    5: There is one that holdeth his peace, that is found wise: and there is another that is hateful, that is bold in speech.
    6: There is one that holdeth his peace, because he knoweth not what to say: and there is another that holdeth his peace, knowing the proper time. 
    7: A wise man will hold his peace till he see opportunity: but a babbler, and a fool, will regard no time. 
    8: He that useth many words shall hurt his own soul: and he that taketh authority to himself unjustly shall be hated. 
    9: There is success in evil things to a man without discipline, and there is a finding that turneth to loss. 
    10: There is a gift that is not profitable: and there is a gift, the recompense of which is double.
    11: There is an abasement because of glory: and there is one that shall lift up his head from a low estate. 
    12: There is that buyeth much for a small price, and restoreth the same sevenfold. 
    13: A man wise in words shall make himself beloved: but the graces of fools shall be poured out. 
    14: The gift of the fool shall do thee no good: for his eyes are sevenfold. 
    15: He will give a few things, and upbraid much: and the opening of his mouth is the kindling of a fire.
    16: Today a man lendeth, and tomorrow he asketh it again: such a man as this is hateful. 
    17: A fool shall have no friend, and there shall be no thanks for his good deeds. 
    18: For they that eat his bread, are of a false tongue. How often, and how many will laugh him to scorn! 
    19: For he doth not distribute with right understanding that which was to be had: in like manner also that which was not to be had. 
    20: The slipping of a false tongue is as one that falleth on the pavement: so the fall of the wicked shall come speedily.
    21: A man without grace is as a vain fable, it shall be continually in the mouth of the unwise. 
    22: A parable coming out, of a fool's mouth shall be rejected: for he doth not speak it in due season. 
    23: There is that is hindered from sinning through want, and in his rest he shall be pricked. 
    24: There is that will destroy his own soul through shamefacedness, and by occasion of an unwise person he will destroy it: and by respect of person he will destroy himself. 
    25: There is that for bashfulness promiseth to his friend, and maketh him his enemy for nothing.
    26: A lie is a foul blot in a man, and yet it will be continually in the mouth of men without discipline. 
    27: A thief is better than a man that is always lying: but both of them shall inherit destruction. 
    28: The manners of lying men are without honour: and their confusion is with them without ceasing. 
    29: A wise man shall advance himself with his words, and a prudent man shall please the great ones. 
    30: He that tilleth his land shall make a high heap of corn: and he that worketh justice shall be exalted: and he that pleaseth great men shall escape iniquity.
    31: Presents and gifts blind the eyes of judges, and make them dumb in the mouth, so that they cannot correct. 
    32: Wisdom that is hid, and treasure that is not seen: what profit is there in them both? 
    33: Better is he that hideth his folly, than the man that hideth his wisdom.

End of day 204.