Day 73:

Reading 2-Samuel, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: And it came to pass after this, that Amnon the son of David loved the sister of Absalom the son of David, who was very beautiful, and her name was Thamar. 
    2: And he was exceedingly fond of her, so that he fell sick for the love of her: for as she was a virgin, he thought it hard to do any thing dishonestly with her. 
    3: Now Amnon had a friend, named Jonadab the son of Semmaa the brother of David, a very wise man: 
    4: And he said to him: Why dost thou grow so lean from day to day, O son of the king? why dost thou not tell me the reason of it? And Amnon said to him: I am in love with Thamar the sister of my brother Absalom. 
    5: And Jonadab said to him: Lie down upon thy bed, and feign thyself sick: and when thy father shall come to visit thee, say to him: Let my sister Thamar, I pray thee, come to me, to give me to eat, and to make me a mess, that I may eat it at her hand.
    6: So Amnon lay down, and made as if he were sick: and when the king came to visit him, Amnon said to the king: I pray thee let my sister Thamar come, and make in my sight two little messes, that I may eat at her hand. 
    7: Then David sent home to Thamar, saying: Come to the house of thy brother Amnon, and make him a mess. 
    8: And Thamar came to the house of Amnon her brother: but he was laid down: and she took meal and tempered it: and dissolving it in his sight she made little messes. 
    9: And taking what she had boiled, she poured it out, and set it before him, but he would not eat: and Amnon said: Put out all persons from me. And when they had put all persons out, 
    10: Amnon said to Thamar: Bring the mess into the chamber, that I may eat at thy hand. And Thamar took the little messes which she had made, and brought them in to her brother Amnon in the chamber.
    11: And when she had presented him the meat, he took hold of her, and said: Come lie with me, my sister. 
    12: She answered him: Do not so, my brother, do not force me: for no such thing must be done in Israel. Do not thou this folly. 
    13: For I shall not be able to bear my shame, and thou shalt be as one of the fools in Israel: but rather speak to the king, and he will not deny me to thee. 
    14: But he would not hearken to her prayers, but being stronger overpowered her and lay with her. 
    15: Then Amnon hated her with an exceeding great hatred: so that the hatred wherewith he hated her was greater than the love with which he had loved her before, And Amnon said to her: Arise, and get thee gone.
    16: She answered him: This evil which now thou dost against me, in driving me away, is greater than that which thou didst before. And he would not hearken to her: 
    17: But calling the servants that ministered to him, he said: Thrust this woman out from me: and shut the door after her. 
    18: And she was clothed with along robe: for the king's daughters that were virgins, used such kind of garments. Then his servant thrust her out: and shut the door after her. 
    19: And she put ashes on her head, and rent her long robe and laid her hands upon her head, and went on crying. 
    20: And Absalom her brother said to her: Hath thy brother Amnon lain with thee? but now, sister, hold thy peace, he is thy brother: and afflict not thy heart for this thing. So Thamar remained pining away in the house of Absalom her brother.
    21: And when king David heard of these things he was exceedingly grieved: and he would not afflict the spirit of his son Amnon, for he loved him, because he was his firstborn. 
    22: But Absalom spoke not to Amnon neither good nor evil: for Absalom hated Amnon because he had ravished his sister Thamar. 
    23: And it came to pass after two years, that the sheep of Absalom were shorn in Baalhasor, which is near Ephraim: and Absalom invited all the king's sons: 
    24: And he came to the king, and said to him: Behold thy servant's sheep are shorn. Let the king, I pray, with his servants come to his servant. 
    25: And the king said to Absalom: Nay, my son, do not ask that we should all come, and be chargeable to thee. And when he pressed him, and he would not go, he blessed him.
    26: And Absalom said: If thou wilt not come, at least let my brother Amnon, I beseech thee, come with us. And the king said to him: It is not necessary that he should go with thee. 
    27: But Absalom pressed him, so that he let Amnon and all the king's sons go with him. And Absalom made a feast as it were the feast of a king. 
    28: And Absalom had commanded his servants, saying: Take notice when Amnon shall be drunk with wine, and when I shall say to you: Strike him, and kill him, fear not: for it is I that command you: take courage, and be valiant men. 
    29: And the servants of Absalom did to Amnon as Absalom had commanded them. And all the king's sons arose and got up every man upon his mule, and fled. 
    30: And while they were yet in the way, a rumour came to David, saying: Absalom hath slain all the king's sons, and there is not one of them left.
    31: Then the king rose up, and rent his garments: and fell upon the ground, and all his servants, that stood about him, rent their garments. 
    32: But Jonadab the son of Semmaa David's brother answering, said: Let not my lord the king think that all the king's sons are slain: Amnon only is dead, for he was appointed by the mouth of Absalom from the day that he ravished his sister Thamar. 
    33: Now therefore let not my lord the king take this thing into his heart, saying: All the king's sons are slain: for Amnon only is dead. 
    34: But Absalom fled away: and the young man that kept the watch, lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold there came much people by a by-way on the side of the mountain. 
    35: And Jonadab said to the king: Behold the king's sons are come: as thy servant said, so it is.
    36: And when he made an end of speaking, the king's sons also appeared: and coming in they lifted up their voice, and wept: and the king also and all his servants wept very much. 
    37: But Absalom fled, and went to Tholomai the son of Ammiud the king of Gessur. And David mourned for his son every day. 
    38: And Absalom after he was fled, and come into Gessur, was there three years. And king David ceased to pursue after Absalom, because he was comforted concerning the death of Amnon.

  Chapter 14.

    1: And Joab the son of Sarvia, understanding that the king's heart was turned to Absalom, 
    2: Sent to Thecua, and fetched from thence a wise woman: and said to her: Feign thyself to be a mourner, and put on mourning apparel, and be not anointed with oil, that thou mayest be as a woman that had a long time been mourning for one dead. 
    3: And thou shalt go in to the king, and shalt speak to him in this manner. And Joab put the words in her mouth. 
    4: And when the woman of Thecua was come in to the king, she fell before him upon the ground, and worshipped, and said: Save me, O king. 
    5: And the king said to her: What is the matter with thee? She answered: Alas, I am a widow woman: for my husband is dead.
    6: And thy handmaid had two sons: and they quarrelled with each other in the field, and there was none to part them: and the one struck the other, and slew him. 
    7: And behold the whole kindred rising against thy handmaid, saith: Deliver him that hath slain his brother, that we may kill him for the life of his brother, whom he slew, and that we may destroy the heir: and they seek to quench my spark which is left, and will leave my husband no name, nor remainder upon the earth. 
    8: And the king said to the woman: Go to thy house, and I will give charge concerning thee. 
    9: And the woman of Thecua said to the king: Upon me, my lord, be the iniquity, and upon the house of my father: but may the king and his throne be guiltless. 
    10: And the king said: If any one shall say ought against thee, bring him to me, and be shall not touch thee any more.
    11: And she said: Let the king remember the Lord his God, that the next of kin be not multiplied to take revenge, and that they may not kill my son. And he said: As the Lord liveth, there shall not one hair of thy son fall to the earth. 
    12: Then the woman said: Let thy handmaid speak one word to my lord the king. And he said: Speak. 
    13: And the woman said: Why hast thou thought such a thing against the people of God, and why hath the king spoken this word, to sin, and not bring home again his own exile? 
    14: We all die, and like waters that return no more, we fall down into the earth: neither will God have a soul to perish, but recalleth, meaning that he that is cast off should not altogether perish. 
    15: Now therefore I am come, to speak this word to my lord the king before the people. And thy handmaid said: I will speak to the king, it maybe the king will perform the request of his handmaid.
    16: And the king hath hearkened to me to deliver his handmaid out of the hand of all that would destroy me and my son together out of the inheritance of God. 
    17: Then let thy handmaid say, that the word of the Lord the king be made as a sacrifice. For even as an angel of God, so is my lord the king, that he is neither moved with blessing nor cursing: wherefore the Lord thy God is also with thee. 
    18: And the king answering, said to the woman: Hide not from me the thing that I ask thee. And the woman said to him: Speak, my lord the king. 
    19: And the king said: Is not the hand of Joab with thee in all this? The woman answered, and said: By the health of thy soul, my lord, O king, it is neither on the left hand, nor on the right, in all these things which my lord the king hath spoken: for thy servant Joab, he commanded me, and he put all these words into the mouth of thy handmaid. 
    20: That I should come about with this form of speech, thy servant Joab, commanded this: but thou, my lord, O king, art wise, according to the wisdom of ail angel of God, to understand all things upon earth.
    21: And the king said to Joab: Behold I am appeased and have granted thy request: Go therefore and fetch back the boy Absalom. 
    22: And Joab falling down to the ground upon his face, adored, and blessed the king: and Joab said: This day thy servant hath understood, that I have found grace in thy sight, my lord, O king: for thou hast fulfilled the request of thy servant. 
    23: Then Joab arose and went to Gessur, and brought Absalom to Jerusalem. 
    24: But the king said: Let him return into his house, and let him not see my face. So Absalom returned into his house, and saw not the king's face. 
    25: But in all Israel there was not a man so comely, and so exceedingly beautiful as Absalom: from the sole of the foot to the crown of his head there was no blemish in him.
    26: And when he polled his hair (now he was polled once a year, because his hair was burdensome to him) he weighed the hair of his head at two hundred sicles, according to the common weight. 
    27: And there were born to Absalom three sons: and one daughter, whose, name was Thamar, and she was very beautiful. 
    28: And Absalom dwelt two years in Jerusalem, and saw not the king's face. 
    29: He sent therefore to Joab, to send him to the king: but he would not come to him. And when he had sent the second time, and he would not come to him, 
    30: He said to his servants: You know the field of Joab near my field, that hath a crop of barley: go now and set it on fire. So the servants of Absalom set the corn on fire. And Joab's servants coming with their garments rent, said: The servants of Absalom have set part of the field on fire.
    31: Then Joab arose, and came to Absalom to his house, and said: Why have thy servants set my corn on fire? 
    32: And Absalom answered Joab: I sent to thee beseeching thee to come to me, that I might send thee to the king, to say to him: Wherefore am I come from Gessur? it had been better for me to be there: I beseech thee therefore that I may see the face of the king: and if he be mindful of my iniquity, let him kill me. 
    33: So Joab going in to the king, told him all: and Absalom was called for, and he went in to the king: and prostrated himself on the ground before him: and the king kissed Absalom.

  Chapter 15.

    1: Now after these things Absalom made himself chariots, and horsemen, and fifty men to run before him. 
    2: And Absalom rising up early stood by the entrance of the gate, and when any man had business to come to the king's judgment, Absalom called him to him, and said: Of what city art thou? He answered, and said: Thy servant is of such a tribe of Israel. 
    3: And Absalom answered him: Thy words seem to me good and just. But there is no man appointed by the king to hear thee. And Absalom said: 
    4: O that they would make me judge over the land, that all that have business might come to me, that I might do them justice. 
    5: Moreover when any man came to him to salute him, he put forth his hand, and took him, and kissed him.
    6: And this he did to all Israel that came for judgment, to be heard by the king, and he enticed the hearts of the men of Israel. 
    7: And after forty years, Absalom said to king David: Let me go, and pay my vows which I have vowed to the Lord in Hebron. 
    8: For thy servant made avow, when he was in Gessur of Syria, saying: If the Lord shall bring me again into Jerusalem I will offer sacrifice to the Lord. 
    9: And king David said to him: Go in peace. And he arose, and went to Hebron. 
    10: And Absalom sent spies into all the tribes of Israel, saying: As soon as you shall hear the sound of the trumpet, say ye: Absalom reigneth in Hebron.
    11: Now there went with Absalom two hundred men out of Jerusalem that were called, going with simplicity of heart, and knowing nothing of the design. 
    12: Absalom also sent for Achitophel the Gilonite, David's counsellor, from his city Gilo. And while he was offering sacrifices, there was a strong conspiracy, and the people running together increased with Absalom. 
    13: And there came a messenger to David, saying: All Israel with their whole heart followeth Absalom. 
    14: And David said to his servants, that were with him in Jerusalem: Arise and let us flee: for we shall not escape else from the face of Absalom: make haste to go out, lest he come and overtake us, and bring ruin upon us, and smite the city with the edge of the sword. 
    15: And the king's servants said to him: Whatsoever our lord the king shall command, we thy servants will willingly execute.
    16: And the king went forth, and all his household on foot: and the king left ten women his concubines to keep the house: 
    17: And the king going forth and all Israel on foot, stood afar off from the house: 
    18: And all his servants walked by him, and the bands of the Cerethi, and the Phelethi, and all the Gethites, valiant warriors, six hundred men who had followed him from Geth on foot, went before the king. 
    19: And the king said to Ethai the Gethite: Why comest thou with us? return and dwell with the king, for thou art a stranger, and art come out of thy own place. 
    20: Yesterday thou camest, and today shalt thou be forced to go forth with us? but I shall go whither I am going: return thou, and take back thy brethren with thee, and the Lord will shew thee mercy, and truth, because thou hast shewn grace and fidelity.
    21: And Ethai answered the king, saying: As the Lord liveth, and as my lord the king liveth: in what place soever thou shalt be, my lord, O king, either in death, or in life, there will thy servant be. 
    22: And David said to Ethai: Come, and pass over. And Ethai the Gethite passed, and all the men that were with him, and the rest of the people. 
    23: And they all wept with a loud voice, and all the people passed over: the king also himself went over the brook Cedron, and all the people marched towards the way that looketh to the desert. 
    24: And Sadoc the priest also came, and all the Levites with him carrying the ark of the covenant of God, and they set down the ark of God: and Abiathar went up, till all the people that was come out of the city had done passing. 
    25: And the king said to Sadoc: Carry back the ark of God into the city: if I shall find grace in the sight of the Lord, he will bring me again, and he will shew me it, and his tabernacle.
    26: But if he shall say to me: Thou pleasest me not: I am ready, let him do that which is good before him. 
    27: And the king said to Sadoc the priest: O seer, return into the city in peace: and let Achimaas thy son, and Jonathan the son of Abiathar, your two sons, be with you. 
    28: Behold I will lie hid in the plains of the wilderness, till there come word from you to certify me. 
    29: So Sadoc and Abiathar carried back the ark of God into Jerusalem: and they tarried there. 
    30: But David went up by the ascent of mount Olivet, going up and weeping, walking barefoot, and with his head covered, and all the people that were with them, went up with their heads covered weeping.
    31: And it was told David that Achitophel also was in the conspiracy with Absalom, and David said: Infatuate, O Lord, I beseech thee, the counsel of Achitophel. 
    32: And when David was come to the top of the mountain, where he was about to adore the Lord, behold Chusai the Arachite, came to meet him with his garment rent and his head covered with earth. 
    33: And David said to him: If thou come with me, thou wilt be a burden to me: 
    34: But if thou return into the city, and wilt say to Absalom: I am thy servant, O king: as I have been thy father's servant, so I will be thy servant: thou shalt defeat the counsel of Achitophel. 
    35: And thou hast with thee Sadoc, and Abiathar the priests: and what thing soever thou shalt hear out of the king's house, thou shalt tell it to Sadoc and Abiathar the priests.
    36: And there are with them their two sons Achimaas the son of Sadoc, and Jonathan the son of Abiathar: and you shall send by them to me every thing that you shall hear. 
    37: Then Chusai the friend of David went into the city, and Absalom came into Jerusalem.

  Chapter 16.

    1: And when David was a little past the top of the hill, behold Siba the servant of Miphiboseth came to meet him with two asses, laden with two hundred loaves of bread, and a hundred bunches of raisins, a hundred cakes of figs, and a vessel of wine. 
    2: And the king said to Siba: What mean these things? And Siba answered: The asses are for the king's household to sit on: and the loaves and the figs for thy servants to eat, and the wine to drink if any man be faint in the desert. 
    3: And the king said: Where is thy master's son? And Siba answered the king: He remained in Jerusalem, saying: Today will the house of Israel restore me the kingdom of my father. 
    4: And the king said to Siba: I give thee all that belonged to Miphiboseth. And Siba said: I beseech thee let me find grace before thee, my lord, O king. 
    5: And king David came as far as Bahurim: and behold there came out from thence a man of the kindred of the house of Saul named Semei, the son of Gera, and coming out he cursed as he went on,
    6: And he threw stones at David, and at all the servants of king David: and all the people, and all the warriors walked on the right, and on the left side of the king. 
    7: And thus said Semei when he cursed the king: Come out, come out, thou man of blood, and thou man of Belial. 
    8: The Lord hath repaid thee for all the blood of the house of Saul: because thou hast usurped the kingdom in his stead, and the Lord hath given the kingdom into the hand of Absalom thy son: and behold thy evils press upon thee, because thou art a man of blood. 
    9: And Abisai the son of Sarvia said to the king: Why should this dead dog curse my lord the king? I will go, and cut off his head. 
    10: And the king said: What have I to do with you, ye sons of Sarvia? Let him alone and let him curse: for the Lord hath bid him curse David: and who is he that shall dare say, why hath he done so?
    11: And the king said to Abisai, and to all his servants: Behold my son, who came forth from my bowels, seeketh my life: how much more now a son of Jemini? let him alone that he may curse as the Lord hath bidden him. 
    12: Perhaps the Lord may look upon my affliction, and the Lord may render me good for the cursing of this day. 
    13: And David and his men with him went by the way. And Semei by the hill's side went over against him, cursing, and casting stones at him, and scattering earth. 
    14: And the king and all the people with him came weary, and refreshed themselves there. 
    15: But Absalom and all his people came into Jerusalem, and Achitophel was with him.
    16: And when Chusai the Arachite, David's friend, was come to Absalom, he said to him: God save thee, O king, God save thee, O king. 
    17: And Absalom said to him: Is this thy kindness to thy friend? Why wentest thou not with thy friend? 
    18: And Chusai answered Absalom: Nay: for I will be his, whom the Lord hath chosen, and all this people, and all Israel, and with him will I abide. 
    19: Besides this, whom shall I serve? is it not the king's son? as I have served thy father, so will I serve thee also. 
    20: And Absalom said to Achitophel: Consult what we are to do.
    21: And Achitophel said to Absalom: Go in to the concubines of thy father, whom he hath left to keep the house: that when all Israel shall hear that thou hast disgraced thy father, their hands may be strengthened with thee. 
    22: So they spread a tent for Absalom on the top of the house, and he went in to his father's concubines before all Israel. 
    23: Now the counsel of Achitophel, which he gave in those days, was as if a man should consult God: so was all the counsel of Achitophel, both when he was with David, and when he was with Absalom.

End of day 73.