Day 146:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: Unto the end, for the hidden things of the Son. A psalm for David. 
    2: I will give praise to thee, O Lord, with my whole heart: I will relate all thy wonders. 
    3: I will be glad and rejoice in thee: I will sing to thy name, O thou most high. 
    4: When my enemy shall be turned back: they shall be weakened and perish before thy face. 
    5: For thou hast maintained my judgment and my cause: thou hast sat on the throne, who judgest justice.
    6: Thou hast rebuked the Gentiles, and the wicked one hath perished: thou hast blotted out their name for ever and ever. 
    7: The swords of the enemy have failed unto the end: and their cities thou hast destroyed. Their memory hath perished with a noise. 
    8: But the Lord remaineth for ever. He hath prepared his throne in judgment: 
    9: And he shall judge the world in equity, he shall judge the people in justice. 
    10: And the Lord is become a refuge for the poor: a helper in due time in tribulation.
    11: And let them trust in thee who know thy name: for thou hast not forsaken them that seek thee, O Lord. 
    12: Sing ye to the Lord, who dwelleth in Sion: declare his ways among the Gentiles: 
    13: For requiring their blood he hath remembered them: he hath not forgotten the cry of the poor. 
    14: Have mercy on me, O Lord: see my humiliation which I suffer from my enemies. 
    15: Thou that liftest me up from the gates of death, that I may declare all thy praises in the gates of the daughter of Sion.
    16: I will rejoice in thy salvation: the Gentiles have stuck fast in the destruction which they have prepared. Their foot hath been taken in the very snare which they hid. 
    17: The Lord shall be known when he executeth judgments: the sinner hath been caught in the works of his own hands. 
    18: The wicked shall be turned into hell, all the nations that forget God. 
    19: For the poor man shall not be forgotten to the end: the patience of the poor shall not perish for ever. 
    20: Arise, O Lord, let not man be strengthened: let the Gentiles be judged in thy sight.
    21: Appoint, O Lord, a lawgiver over them: that the Gentiles may know themselves to be but men. 
    22: Why, O Lord, hast thou retired afar off? why dost thou slight us in our wants, in the time of trouble? 
    23: Whilst the wicked man is proud, the poor is set on fire: they are caught in the counsels which they devise. 
    24: For the sinner is praised in the desires of his soul: and the unjust man is blessed. 
    25: The sinner hath provoked the Lord according to the multitude of his wrath he will not seek him:
    26: God is not before his eyes: his ways are filthy at all times. Thy judgments are removed from his sight: he shall rule over all his enemies. 
    27: For he hath said in his heart: I shall not be moved from generation to generation, and shall be without evil. 
    28: His mouth is full of cursing, and of bitterness, and of deceit: under his tongue are labour and sorrow. 
    29: He sitteth in ambush with the rich in private places, that he may kill the innocent. 
    30: His eyes are upon the poor man: He lieth in wait in secret like a lion in his den. He lieth in ambush that he may catch the poor man: to catch the poor, whilst he draweth him to him.
    31: In his net he will bring him down, he will crouch and fall, when he shall have power over the poor. 
    32: For he hath said in his heart: God hath forgotten, he hath turned away his face not to see to the end. 
    33: Arise, O Lord God, let thy hand be exalted: forget not the poor. 
    34: Wherefore hath the wicked provoked God? for he hath said in his heart: He will not require it. 
    35: Thou seest it, for thou considerest labour and sorrow: that thou mayst deliver them into thy hands. To thee is the poor man left: thou wilt be a helper to the orphan.
    36: Break thou the arm of the sinner and of the malignant: his sin shall be sought, and shall not be found. 
    37: The Lord shall reign to eternity, yea, for ever and ever: ye Gentiles shall perish from his land. 
    38: The Lord hath heard the desire of the poor: thy ear hath heard the preparation of their heart. 
    39: To judge for the fatherless and for the humble, that man may no more presume to magnify himself upon earth.

  Chapter 10.

    1: Unto the end. A psalm for David. 
    2: In the Lord I put my trust: how then do you say to my soul: Get thee away from hence to the mountain like a sparrow? 
    3: For, lo, the wicked have bent their bow; they have prepared their arrows in the quiver; to shoot in the dark the upright of heart. 
    4: For they have destroyed the things which thou hast made: but what has the just man done? 
    5: The Lord is in his holy temple, the Lord's throne is in heaven. His eyes look on the poor man: his eyelids examine the sons of men.
    6: The Lord trieth the just and the wicked: but he that loveth iniquity hateth his own soul. 
    7: He shall rain snares upon sinners: fire and brimstone and storms of winds shall be the portion of their cup. 
    8: For the Lord is just, and hath loved justice: his countenance hath beheld righteousness.

  Chapter 11.

    1: Unto the end; for the octave, a psalm for David. 
    2: Save me, O Lord, for there is now no saint: truths are decayed from among the children of men. 
    3: They have spoken vain things every one to his neighbour: with deceitful lips, and with a double heart have they spoken. 
    4: May the Lord destroy all deceitful lips, and the tongue that speaketh proud things. 
    5: Who have said: We will magnify our tongue; our lips are our own; who is Lord over us?
    6: By reason of the misery of the needy, and the groans of the poor, now will I arise, saith the Lord. I win set him in safety; I will deal confidently in his regard. 
    7: The words of the Lord are pure words: as silver tried by the fire, purged from the earth refined seven times. 
    8: Thou, O Lord, wilt preserve us: and keep us from this generation for ever. 
    9: The wicked walk round about: according to thy highness, thou hast multiplied the children of men.

  Chapter 12.

    1: Unto the end, a psalm for David. How long, O Lord, wilt thou forget me unto the end? how long dost thou turn away thy face from me? 
    2: How long shall I take counsels in my soul, sorrow in my heart all the day? 
    3: How long shall my enemy be exalted over me? 
    4: Consider, and hear me, O Lord my God. Enlighten my eyes that I never sleep in death: 
    5: Lest at any time my enemy say: I have prevailed against him. They that trouble me will rejoice when I am moved:
    6: But I have trusted in thy mercy. My heart shall rejoice in thy salvation: I will sing to the Lord, who giveth me good things: yea I will sing to the name of the Lord the most high.

End of day 146.