Day 323:

Reading 2-Corinthians, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: For we know, if our earthly house of this habitation be dissolved, that we have a building of God, a house not made with hands, eternal in heaven. 
    2: For in this also we groan, desiring to be clothed upon with our habitation that is from heaven. 
    3: Yet so that we be found clothed, not naked. 
    4: For we also, who are in this tabernacle, do groan, being burthened; because we would not be unclothed, but clothed upon, that that which is mortal may be swallowed up by life. 
    5: Now he that maketh us for this very thing, is God, who hath given us the pledge of the Spirit.
    6: Therefore having always confidence, knowing that, while we are in the body, we are absent from the Lord. 
    7: (For we walk by faith, and not by sight.) 
    8: But we are confident, and have a good will to be absent rather from the body, and to be present with the Lord. 
    9: And therefore we labour, whether absent or present, to please him. 
    10: For we must all be manifested before the judgment seat of Christ, that every one may receive the proper things of the body, according as he hath done, whether it be good or evil.
    11: Knowing therefore the fear of the Lord, we use persuasion to men; but to God we are manifest. And I trust also that in your consciences we are manifest. 
    12: We commend not ourselves again to you, but give you occasion to glory in our behalf; that you may have somewhat to answer them who glory in face, and not in heart. 
    13: For whether we be transported in mind, it is to God; or whether we be sober, it is for you. 
    14: For the charity of Christ presseth us: judging this, that if one died for all, then all were dead. 
    15: And Christ died for all; that they also who live, may not now live to themselves, but unto him who died for them, and rose again.
    16: Wherefore henceforth, we know no man according to the flesh. And if we have known Christ according to the flesh; but now we know him so no longer. 
    17: If then any be in Christ a new creature, the old things are passed away, behold all things are made new. 
    18: But all things are of God, who hath reconciled us to himself by Christ; and hath given to us the ministry of reconciliation. 
    19: For God indeed was in Christ, reconciling the world to himself, not imputing to them their sins; and he hath placed in us the word of reconciliation. 
    20: For Christ therefore we are ambassadors, God as it were exhorting by us. For Christ, we beseech you, be reconciled to God.
    21: Him, who knew no sin, he hath made sin for us, that we might be made the justice of God in him.

  Chapter 6.

    1: And we helping do exhort you, that you receive not the grace of God in vain. 
    2: For he saith: In an accepted time have I heard thee; and in the day of salvation have I helped thee. Behold, now is the acceptable time; behold, now is the day of salvation. 
    3: Giving no offence to any man, that our ministry be not blamed: 
    4: But in all things let us exhibit ourselves as the ministers of God, in much patience, in tribulation, in necessities, in distresses, 
    5: In stripes, in prisons, in seditions, in labours, in watchings, in fastings,
    6: In chastity, in knowledge, in longsuffering, in sweetness, in the Holy Ghost, in charity unfeigned, 
    7: In the word of truth, in the power of God; by the armour of justice on the right hand and on the left; 
    8: By honour and dishonour, by evil report and good report; as deceivers, and yet true; as unknown, and yet known; 
    9: As dying, and behold we live; as chastised, and not killed; 
    10: As sorrowful, yet always rejoicing; as needy, yet enriching many; as having nothing, and possessing all things.
    11: Our mouth is open to you, O ye Corinthians, our heart is enlarged. 
    12: You are not straitened in us, but in your own bowels you are straitened. 
    13: But having the same recompense, (I speak as to my children,) be you also enlarged. 
    14: Bear not the yoke with unbelievers. For what participation hath justice with injustice? Or what fellowship hath light with darkness? 
    15: And what concord hath Christ with Belial? Or what part hath the faithful with the unbeliever?
    16: And what agreement hath the temple of God with idols? For you are the temple of the living God; as God saith: I will dwell in them, and walk among them; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. 
    17: Wherefore, Go out from among them, and be ye separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing: 
    18: And I will receive you; and I will be a Father to you; and you shall be my sons and daughters, saith the Lord Almighty.

  Chapter 7.

    1: Having therefore these promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all defilement of the flesh and of the spirit, perfecting sanctification in the fear of God. 
    2: Receive us. We have injured no man, we have corrupted no man, we have overreached no man. 
    3: I speak not this to your condemnation. For we have said before, that you are in our hearts, to die together, and to live together. 
    4: Great is my confidence for you, great is my glorying for you. I am filled with comfort: I exceedingly abound with joy in all our tribulation. 
    5: For also when we were come into Macedonia, our flesh had no rest, but we suffered all tribulation; combats without, fears within.
    6: But God, who comforteth the humble, comforted us by the coming of Titus. 
    7: And not by his coming only, but also by the consolation, wherewith he was comforted in you, relating to us your desire, your mourning, your zeal for me, so that I rejoiced the more. 
    8: For although I made you sorrowful by my epistle, I do not repent; and if I did repent, seeing that the same epistle (although but for a time) did make you sorrowful; 
    9: Now I am glad: not because you were made sorrowful; but because you were made sorrowful unto penance. For you were made sorrowful according to God, that you might suffer damage by us in nothing. 
    10: For the sorrow that is according to God worketh penance, steadfast unto salvation; but the sorrow of the world worketh death.
    11: For behold this selfsame thing, that you were made sorrowful according to God, how great carefulness it worketh in you; yea defence, yea indignation, yea fear, yea desire, yea zeal, yea revenge: in all things you have shewed yourselves to be undefiled in the matter. 
    12: Wherefore although I wrote to you, it was not for his sake that I did the wrong, nor for him that suffered it; but to manifest our carefulness that we have for you 
    13: Before God: therefore we were comforted. But in our consolation, we did the more abundantly rejoice for the joy of Titus, because his spirit was refreshed by you all. 
    14: And if I have boasted any thing to him of you, I have not been put to shame; but as we have spoken all things to you in truth, so also our boasting that was made to Titus is found a truth. 
    15: And his bowels are more abundantly towards you; remembering the obedience of you all, how with fear and trembling you have received him.
    16: I rejoice that in all things I have confidence in you.

  Chapter 8.

    1: Now we make known unto you, brethren, the grace of God, that hath been given in the churches of Macedonia. 
    2: That in much experience of tribulation, they have had abundance of joy; and their very deep poverty hath abounded unto the riches of their simplicity. 
    3: For according to their power (I bear them witness), and beyond their power, they were willing. 
    4: With much entreaty begging of us the grace and communication of the ministry that is done toward the saints. 
    5: And not as we hoped, but they gave their own selves first to the Lord, then to us by the will of God:
    6: Insomuch, that we desired Titus, that as he had begun, so also he would finish among you this same grace. 
    7: That as in all things you abound in faith, and word, and knowledge, and all carefulness; moreover also in your charity towards us, so in this grace also you may abound. 
    8: I speak not as commanding; but by the carefulness of others, approving also the good disposition of your charity. 
    9: For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that being rich he became poor, for your sakes; that through his poverty you might be rich. 
    10: And herein I give my advice; for this is profitable for you, who have begun not only to do, but also to be willing, a year ago.
    11: Now therefore perform ye it also in deed; that as your mind is forward to be willing, so it may be also to perform, out of that which you have. 
    12: For if the will be forward, it is accepted according to that which a man hath, not according to that which he hath not. 
    13: For I mean not that others should be eased, and you burthened, but by an equality. 
    14: In this present time let your abundance supply their want, that their abundance also may supply your want, that there may be an equality, 
    15: As it is written: He that had much, had nothing over; and he that had little, had no want.
    16: And thanks be to God, who hath given the same carefulness for you in the heart of Titus. 
    17: For indeed he accepted the exhortation; but being more careful, of his own will he went unto you. 
    18: We have sent also with him the brother, whose praise is in the gospel through all the churches. 
    19: And not that only, but he was also ordained by the churches companion of our travels, for this grace, which is administered by us, to the glory of the Lord, and our determined will: 
    20: Avoiding this, lest any man should blame us in this abundance which is administered by us.
    21: For we forecast what may be good not only before God, but also before men. 
    22: And we have sent with them our brother also, whom we have often proved diligent in many things; but now much more diligent, with much confidence in you, 
    23: Either for Titus, who is my companion and fellow labourer towards you, or our brethren, the apostles of the churches, the glory of Christ. 
    24: Wherefore shew ye to them, in the sight of the churches, the evidence of your charity, and of our boasting on your behalf.

End of day 323.