Day 27:

Reading Leviticus, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: And the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying: 
    2: The man in whose skin or flesh shalt arise a different colour or a blister, or as it were something shining, that is, the stroke of the leprosy, shall be brought to Aaron the priest, or any one of his sons. 
    3: And if he see the leprosy in his skin, and the hair turned white, and the place where the leprosy appears lower than the skin and the rest of the flesh: it is the stroke of the leprosy, and upon his judgment he shall be separated. 
    4: But if there be a shining whiteness in the skin, and not lower than the other flesh, and the hair be of the former colour, the priest shall shut him up seven days. 
    5: And the seventh day he shall look on him: and if the leprosy be grown no farther, and hath not spread itself in the skin, he shall shut him up again other seven days.
    6: And on the seventh day, he shall look on him: if the leprosy be somewhat obscure, and not spread in the skin, he shall declare him clean, because it is but a scab: and the man shall wash his clothes, and shall be clean. 
    7: But if the leprosy grow again, after he was seen by the priest and restored to cleanness, he shall be brought to him, 
    8: And shall be condemned of uncleanness. 
    9: If the stroke of the leprosy be in a man, he shall be brought to the priest, 
    10: And he shall view him. And when there shall be a white colour in the skin, and it shall have changed the look of the hair, and the living flesh itself shall appear:
    11: It shall be judged an inveterate leprosy, and grown into the skin. The priest therefore shall declare him unclean, and shall not shut him up, because he is evidently unclean. 
    12: But if the leprosy spring out running about in the skin, and cover all the skin from the head to the feet, whatsoever falleth under the sight of the eyes, 
    13: The priest shall view him, and shall judge that the leprosy which he has is very clean: because it is all turned into whiteness, and therefore the man shall be clean. 
    14: But when the live flesh shall appear in him, 
    15: Then by the judgment of the priest he shall be defiled, and shall be reckoned among the unclean: for live flesh, if it be spotted with leprosy, is unclean.
    16: And if again it be turned into whiteness, and cover all the man, 
    17: The priest shall view him, and shall judge him to be clean. 
    18: When also there has been an ulcer in the flesh and the skin, and it has been healed, 
    19: And in the place of the ulcer, there appeareth a white scar, or somewhat red, the man shall be brought to the priest: 
    20: And when he shall see the place of the leprosy lower than the other flesh, and the hair turned white, he shall declare him unclean, for the plague of leprosy is broken out in the ulcer.
    21: But if the hair be of the former colour, and the scar somewhat obscure, and be not lower than the flesh that is near it, he shall shut him up seven days. 
    22: And if it spread, he shall judge him to have the leprosy: 
    23: But if it stay in its place, it is but the scar of an ulcer, and the man shall be clean. 
    24: The flesh also and skin that hath been burnt, and after it is healed hath a white or a red scar, 
    25: The priest shall view it, and if he see it turned white, and the place thereof is lower than the other skin: he shall declare him unclean, because the evil of leprosy is broken out in the scar.
    26: But if the colour of the hair be not changed, nor the blemish lower than the other flesh, and the appearance of the leprosy be somewhat obscure, he shall shut him up seven days, 
    27: And on the seventh day he shall view him: if the leprosy be grown farther in the skin, he shall declare him unclean. 
    28: But if the whiteness stay in its place, and be not very clear, it is the sore of a burning, and therefore he shall be cleansed, because it is only the scar of a burning. 
    29: If the leprosy break out in the head or the beard of a man or woman, the Priest shall see them, 
    30: And if the place be lower than the other flesh, and the hair yellow, and thinner than usual: he shall declare them unclean, because it is the leprosy of the head and the beard;
    31: But if he perceive the place of the spot is equal with the flesh that is near it, and the hair black: he shall shut him up seven days, 
    32: And on the seventh day he shall look upon it. If the spot be not grown, and the hair keep its colour, and the place of the blemish be even with the other flesh: 
    33: The man shall be shaven all but the place of the spot, and he shall be shut up other seven days: 
    34: If on the seventh day the evil seem to have stayed in its place, and not lower than the other flesh, he shall cleanse him, and his clothes being washed he shall be clean. 
    35: But if after his cleansing the spot spread again in the skin,
    36: He shall seek no more whether the hair be turned yellow, because he is evidently unclean. 
    37: But if the spot be stayed, and the hair be black, let him know that the man is healed, and let him confidently pronounce him clean. 
    38: If a whiteness appear in the skin of a man or a woman, 
    39: The priest shall view them. If he find that a darkish whiteness shineth in the skin, let him know that it is not the leprosy, but a white blemish, and that the man is clean. 
    40: The man whose hair falleth off from his head, he is bald and clean:
    41: And if the hair fall from his forehead, he is bald before and clean. 
    42: But if in the bald head or in the bald forehead there be risen a white or reddish colour, 
    43: And the priest perceive this, he shall condemn him undoubtedly of leprosy which is risen in the bald part. 
    44: Now whosoever shall be defiled with the leprosy, and is separated by the judgment of the priest, 
    45: Shall have his clothes hanging loose, his head bare, his mouth covered with a cloth, and he shall cry out that he is defiled and unclean.
    46: All the time that he is a leper and unclean, he shall dwell alone without the camp. 
    47: A woollen or linen garment that shall have the leprosy 
    48: In the warp, and the woof, or a skin. or whatsoever is made of a skin, 
    49: If it be infected with a white or red spot, it shall be accounted the leprosy, and shall be shewn to the priest. 
    50: And he shall look upon it and shall shut it up seven days:
    51: And on the seventh day when he looketh on it again, if he find that it if grown, it is a fixed leprosy: he shall judge the garment unclean, and every thing wherein it shall be found: 
    52: And therefore it shall be burnt with fire. 
    53: But if he see that it is not grown, 
    54: He shall give orders, and they shall wash that part wherein the leprosy is, and he shall shut it up other seven days. 
    55: And when he shall see that the former colour is not returned, nor yet the leprosy spread, he shall judge it unclean, and shall burn it with fire, for the leprosy has taken hold of the outside of the garment, or through the whole.
    56: But if the place of the leprosy be somewhat dark, after the garment is washed, he shall tear it off, and divide it from that which is sound. 
    57: And if after this there appear in those places that before were without spot, a flying and wandering leprosy: it must be burnt with fire. 
    58: If it cease, he shall wash with water the parts that are pure, the second time, and they shall be clean. 
    59: This is the law touching the leprosy of any woollen or linen garment, either in the warp or woof, or any thing of skins, how it ought to be cleansed, or pronounced unclean.

  Chapter 14.

    1: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: 
    2: This is the rite of a leper, when he is to be cleansed: he shall be brought to the priest: 
    3: Who going out of the camp when he shall And that the leprosy is cleansed, 
    4: Shall command him that is to be purified, to offer for himself two living sparrows, which it is lawful to eat, and cedar wood, and scarlet, and hyssop. 
    5: And he shall command one of the sparrows to be immolated in an earthen vessel over living waters:
    6: But the other that is alive he shall dip, with the cedar wood, and the scarlet and the hyssop, in the blood of the sparrow that is immolated: 
    7: Wherewith he shall sprinkle him that is to be cleansed seven times, that he may be rightly purified: and he shall let go the living sparrow, that it may fly into the field. 
    8: And when the man hath washed his clothes, he shall shave all the hair of his body, and shall be washed with water: and being purified, he shall enter into the camp, yet so that he tarry without his own tent seven days: 
    9: And on the seventh day he shall shave the hair of his head, and his beard and his eyebrows, and the hair of all his body. And having washed again his clothes, and his body, 
    10: On the eighth day he shall take two lambs without blemish, and an ewe of a year old without blemish, and three tenths of flour tempered with oil for a sacrifice, and a sextary of oil apart.
    11: And when the priest that purifieth the man, hath presented him, and all these things before the Lord, at the door of the tabernacle of the testimony, 
    12: He shall take a. lamb, and offer it for a trespass offering with the sextary of oil: and having offered all before the Lord, 
    13: He shall immolate the lamb, where the victim for sin is wont to be immolated, and the holocaust, that is, in the holy place: for as that which is for sin, so also the victim for a trespass offering pertaineth to the priest: it is holy of holies. 
    14: And the priest taking of the blood of the victim that was immolated for trespass, shall put it upon the tip of the right ear of him that is cleansed, and upon the thumb of his right hand and the great toe of his right foot: 
    15: And he shall pour of the sextary of oil into his own left. hand,
    16: And shall dip his right finger in it, and sprinkle it before the Lord seven times. 
    17: And the rest of the oil in his left band, he shall pour upon the tip of the right ear of him that is cleansed, and upon the thumb of his right hand and the great toe of his right foot, and upon the blood that was shed for trespass, 
    18: And upon his head. 
    19: And he shall pray for him before the Lord, and shall offer the sacrifice for sin: then shall he immolate the holocaust, 
    20: And put it on the altar with the libations thereof, and the man shall be rightly cleansed.
    21: But if he be poor, and his hand cannot find the things aforesaid: he shall take a lamb for an offering for trespass, that the priest may pray for him, and a tenth part of hour tempered with oil for a sacrifice, and a sextary of oil, 
    22: And two turtles or two young pigeons, of which one may be for sin, and the other for a holocaust: 
    23: And he shall offer them on the eighth day of his purification to the priest, at the door of the tabernacle of the testimony before the Lord. 
    24: And the priest receiving the lamb for trespass, and the sextary of oil, shall elevate them together. 
    25: And the lamb being immolated, he shall put of the blood thereof upon the tip of the right ear of him that is cleansed, and upon the thumb of his right hand, and the great toe of his right foot:
    26: But he shall pour part of the oil into his own left hand, 
    27: And dipping the finger of his right hand in it, he shall sprinkle it seven times before the Lord: 
    28: And he shall touch the tip of the right ear of him that is cleansed, and the thumb of his right hand and the great toe of his right foot, in the place of the blood that was shed for trespass. 
    29: And the other part of the oil that is in his left hand, he shall pour upon the head of the purified person, that he may appease the Lord for him. 
    30: And he shall offer a turtle, or young pigeon,
    31: One for trespass, and the other for a holocaust, with their libations. 
    32: This is the sacrifice of a leper, that is not able to have all things that appertain to his cleansing. 
    33: And the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying: 
    34: When you shall be come into the land of Chanaan, which I will give you for a possession, if there be the plague of leprosy in a house, 
    35: He whose house it is, shall go and tell the priest, saying: It seemeth to me, that there is the plague of leprosy in my house,
    36: And he shall command, that they carry forth all things out of the house, before he go into it, and see whether it have the leprosy, lest all things become unclean that are in the house. And afterwards he shall go in to view the leprosy of the house. 
    37: And if he see in the walls thereof as it were little dints, disfigured with paleness or redness, and lower than all the rest, 
    38: He shall go out of the door of the house, and forthwith shut it up seven days, 
    39: And returning on the seventh day, he shall look upon it. If he find that the leprosy is spread, 
    40: He shall command, that the stones wherein the leprosy is, be taken out, and cast without the city into an unclean place:
    41: And that the house be scraped on the inside round about, and the dust of the scraping be scattered without the city into an unclean place: 
    42: And that other stones be laid in the place of them that were taken away, and the house be plastered with other mortar. 
    43: But if, after the stones be taken out, and the dust scraped off, and it be plastered with other earth, 
    44: The priest going in perceive that the leprosy is returned, and the walls full of spots, it is a lasting leprosy, and the house is unclean: 
    45: And they shall destroy it forthwith, and shall cast the stones and timber thereof, and all the dust without the town into an unclean place.
    46: He that entereth into the house when it is shut, shall be unclean until evening, 
    47: And he that sleepeth in it, and eateth any thing, shall wash his clothes. 
    48: But if the priest going in perceive that the leprosy is not spread in the house, after it was plastered again, he shall purify it, it being cured, 
    49: And for the purification thereof he shall take two sparrows, and cedar wood, and scarlet, and hyssop: 
    50: And having immolated one sparrow In an earthen vessel over living waters,
    51: He shall take the cedar wood, and the hyssop, and the scarlet, and the living sparrow, and shall dip all in the blood of the sparrow that is immolated, and in the living water, and he shall sprinkle the house seven times: 
    52: And shall purify it as well with the blood of the sparrow, as with the living water, and with the living sparrow, and with the cedar wood, and the hyssop, and the scarlet. 
    53: And when he hath let go the sparrow to fly freely away into the field, he shall pray for the house, and it shall be rightly cleansed. 
    54: This is the law of every kind of leprosy and stroke. 
    55: Of the leprosy of garments and houses,
    56: Of a scar and of blisters breaking out, of a shining spot, and when the colours are diversely changed: 
    57: That it may be known when a thing is clean or unclean.

  Chapter 15.

    1: And the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying: 
    2: Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them: The man that hath an issue of seed, shall be unclean. 
    3: And then shall he be judged subject to this evil, when a filthy humour, at every moment, cleaveth to his flesh, and gathereth there. 
    4: Every bed on which he sleepeth, shall be unclean, and every place on which he sitteth. 
    5: If any man touch his bed, he shall wash his clothes: and being washed with water, he shall be unclean until the evening.
    6: If a man sit where that man hath sitten, he also shall wash his clothes: and being washed with water, shall be unclean until the evening. 
    7: He that toucheth his flesh, shall wash his clothes: and being himself washed with water shall be unclean until the evening. 
    8: If such a man cast his spittle upon him that is clean, he shall wash his clothes: and being washed with water, he shall be unclean until the evening. 
    9: The saddle on which he hath sitten shall be unclean. 
    10: And whatsoever has been under him that hath the issue of seed, shall be unclean until the evening. He that carrieth any of these things, shall wash his clothes: and being washed with water, he shall be unclean until the evening.
    11: Every person whom such a one shall touch, not having washed his hands before, shall wash his clothes: and being washed with water, shall be unclean until the evening. 
    12: If he touch a vessel of earth, it shall be broken: but if a vessel of wood, if shall be washed with water. 
    13: If he who suffereth this disease be healed, he shall number seven days after his cleansing, and having washed his clothes, and all his body in living water, he shall be clean. 
    14: And on the eighth day he shall take two turtles, or two young pigeons, and he shall come before the Lord, to the door of the tabernacle of the testimony, and shall give them to the priest: 
    15: Who shall offer one for sin, and the other for a holocaust: and he shall pray for him before the Lord, that he may be cleansed of the issue of his seed.
    16: The man from whom the seed of copulation goeth out, shall wash all his body with water: and he shall be unclean until the evening. 
    17: The garment or skin that he weareth, he shall wash with water, and it shall be unclean until the evening. 
    18: The woman, with whom he copulateth, shall be washed with water, and shall be unclean until the evening. 
    19: The woman, who at the return of the month, hath her issue of blood, shall be separated seven days. 
    20: Every one that toucheth her, shall be unclean until the evening.
    21: And every thing that she sleepeth on, or that she sitteth on in the days of her separation, shall be defiled. 
    22: He that toucheth her bed shall wash his clothes: and being himself washed with water, shall be unclean until the evening. 
    23: Whosoever shall touch any vessel on which she sitteth, shall wash his clothes: and himself being washed with water, shall be defiled until the evening. 
    24: If a man copulateth with her in the time of her flowers, he shall be unclean seven days: and every bed on which he shall sleep shall be defiled. 
    25: The woman that hath an issue of blood many days out of her ordinary time, or that ceaseth not to flow after the monthly courses, as long as she is subject to this disease, shall be unclean, in the same manner as if she were in her flowers.
    26: Every bed on which she sleepeth, and every vessel on which she sitteth, shall be defiled. 
    27: Whosoever toucheth them shall wash his clothes: and himself being washed with water, shall be unclean until the evening. 
    28: If the blood stop and cease to run, she shall count seven days of her purification: 
    29: And on the eighth day she shall offer for herself to the priest, two turtles, or two young pigeons, at the door of the tabernacle of the testimony: 
    30: And he shall offer one for sin, and the other for a holocaust, and he shall pray for her before the Lord, and for the issue of her uncleanness.
    31: You shall teach therefore the children of Israel to take heed of uncleanness, that they may not die in their filth, when they shall have defiled my tabernacle that is among them. 
    32: This is the law of him that hath the issue of seed, and that is defiled by copulation. 
    33: And of the woman that is separated in her monthly times, or that hath a continual issue of blood, and of the man that sleepeth with her.

  Chapter 16.

    1: And the Lord spoke to Moses, after the death of the two sons of Aaron, when they were slain upon their offering strange fire: 
    2: And he commanded him, saying, Speak to Aaron thy brother, that he enter not at all into the sanctuary, which is within the veil before the propitiatory, with which the ark is covered, lest he die, (for I will appear in a cloud over the oracle,) 
    3: Unless he first do these things: He shall offer a calf for sin, and a ram for a holocaust. 
    4: He shall be vested with a linen tunick, he shall cover his nakedness with linen breeches: he shall be girded with a linen girdle, and he shall put a linen mitre upon his head: for these are holy vestments: all which he shall put on, after he is washed. 
    5: And he shall receive from the whole multitude of the children of Israel two buck goats for sin, and one ram for a holocaust.
    6: And when he hath offered the calf and prayed for himself, and for his own house, 
    7: He shall make the two buck goats to stand before the Lord in the door of the tabernacle of the testimony: 
    8: And casting lots upon them both, one to be offered to the Lord, and the other to be the emissary goat: 
    9: That whose lot fell to be offered to the Lord, he shall offer for sin: 
    10: But that whose lot was to be the emissary goat, he shall present alive before the Lord, that he may pour out prayers upon him, and let him go into the wilderness.
    11: After these things are duly celebrated, he shall offer the calf, and praying for himself and for his own house, he shall immolate it: 
    12: And taking the censer, which he hath filled with the burning coals of the altar, and taking up with his hand the compounded perfume for incense, he shall go in within the veil into the holy place: 
    13: That when the perfumes are put upon the fire, the cloud and vapour thereof may cover the oracle, which is over the testimony, and he may not die. 
    14: He shall take also of the blood of the calf, and sprinkle with his finger seven times towards the propitiatory to the east. 
    15: And when he hath killed the buck goat for the sin of the people, he shall carry in the blood thereof within the veil, as he was commanded to do with the blood of the calf, that he may sprinkle it over against the oracle,
    16: And may expiate the sanctuary from the uncleanness of the children of Israel, and from their transgressions, and all their sins. According to this rite shall he do to the tabernacle of the testimony, which is fixed among them in the midst of the filth of their habitation. 
    17: Let no man be in the tabernacle when the high priest goeth into the sanctuary, to pray for himself and his house, and for the whole congregation of Israel, until he come out. 
    18: And when he is come out to the altar that is before the Lord, let him pray for himself, and taking the blood of the calf, and of the buck goat, let him pour it upon the horns thereof round about: 
    19: And sprinkling with his finger seven times, let him expiate, and sanctify it from the uncleanness of the children of Israel. 
    20: After he hath cleansed the sanctuary, and the tabernacle, and the altar, then let him offer the living goat:
    21: And putting both hands upon his head, let him confess all the iniquities of the children of Israel, and all their offences and sins: and praying that they may light on his head, he shall turn him out by a man ready for it, into the desert. 
    22: And when the goat hath carried all their iniquities into an uninhabited land, and shall be let go into the desert, 
    23: Aaron shall return into the tabernacle of the testimony, and putting off the vestments, which he had on him before when he entered into the sanctuary, and leaving them there, 
    24: He shall wash his flesh in the holy place, and shall put on his own garments. And after that he has come out and hath offered his own holocaust, and that of the people, he shall pray both for himself, and for the people: 
    25: And the fat that is offered for sins, he shall burn upon the altar.
    26: But he that hath let go the emissary goat, shall wash his clothes, and his body with water, and so shall enter into the camp. 
    27: But the calf and the buck goat, that were sacrificed for sin, and whose blood was carried into the sanctuary, to accomplish the atonement, they shall carry forth without the camp, and shall burn with fire, their skins and their flesh, and their dung: 
    28: And whosoever burneth them shall wash his clothes, and flesh with water, and so shall enter into the camp. 
    29: And this shall be to you an everlasting ordinance: The seventh month, the tenth day of the month, you shall afflict your souls, and shall do no work, whether it be one of your own country, or a stranger that sojourneth among you. 
    30: Upon this day shall be the expiation for you, and the cleansing from all your sins: you shall be cleansed before the Lord.
    31: For it is a sabbath of rest, and you shall afflict your souls by a perpetual religion. 
    32: And the priest that is anointed, and whose hands are consecrated to do the office of the priesthood in his father's stead, shall make atonement; and he shall be vested with the linen robe and the holy vestments, 
    33: And he shall expiate the sanctuary and the tabernacle of the testimony and the altar, the priest also and all the people. 
    34: And this shall be an ordinance for ever, that you pray for the children of Israel, and for all their sins once in a year. He did therefore as the Lord had commanded Moses.

End of day 27.