Day 269:

Reading Amos, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: Hear ye this word, which I take up concerning you for a lamentation. The house of Israel is fallen, and it shall rise no more. 
    2: The virgin of Israel is cast down upon her land, there is none to raise her up. 
    3: For thus saith the Lord God: The city, out of which came forth a thousand, there shall be left in it a hundred: and out of which there came a hundred, there shall be left in it ten, in the house of Israel. 
    4: For thus saith the Lord to the house of Israel: Seek ye me, and you shall live. 
    5: But seek not Bethel, and go not into Galgal, neither shall you pass over to Bersabee: for Galgal shall go into captivity, and Bethel shall be unprofitable.
    6: Seek ye the Lord, and live: lest the house of Joseph be burnt with fire, and it shall devour, and there shall be none to quench Bethel. 
    7: You that turn judgment into wormwood, and forsake justice in the land, 
    8: Seek him that maketh Arcturus, and Orion, and that turneth darkness into morning, and that changeth day into night: that calleth the waters of the sea, and poureth them out upon the face of the earth: The Lord is his name. 
    9: He that with a smile bringeth destruction upon the strong, and waste upon the mighty. 
    10: They have hated him that rebuketh in the gate: and have abhorred him that speaketh perfectly.
    11: Therefore because you robbed the poor, and took the choice prey from him: you shall build houses with square stone, and shall not dwell in them: you shall plant most delightful vineyards, and shall not drink the wine of them. 
    12: Because I know your manifold crimes, and your grievous sins: enemies of the just, taking bribes, and oppressing the poor in the gate. 
    13: Therefore the prudent shall keep silence at that time, for it is an evil time. 
    14: Seek ye good, and not evil, that you may live: and the Lord the God of hosts will be with you, as you have said. 
    15: Hate evil, and love good, and establish judgment in the gate: it may be the Lord the God of hosts may have mercy on the remnant of Joseph.
    16: Therefore thus saith the Lord the God of hosts the sovereign Lord: In every street there shall be wailing: and in all places that are without, they shall say: Alas, alas! and they shall call the husbandman to mourning, and such as are skillful in lamentation to lament. 
    17: And in all vineyards there shall be wailing: because I will pass through in the midst of thee, saith the Lord. 
    18: Woe to them that desire the day of the Lord: to what end is it for you? the day of the Lord is darkness, and not light. 
    19: As if a man should flee from the face of a lion, and a bear should meet him: or enter into the house, and lean with his hand upon the wall, and a serpent should bite him. 
    20: Shall not the day of the Lord be darkness, and not light: and obscurity, and no brightness in it?
    21: I hate, and have rejected your festivities: and I will not receive the odour of your assemblies. 
    22: And if you offer me holocausts, and your gifts, I will not receive them: neither will I regard the vows of your fat beasts. 
    23: Take away from me the tumult of thy songs: and I will not hear the canticles of thy harp. 
    24: But judgment shall be revealed as water, and justice as a mighty torrent. 
    25: Did you offer victims and sacrifices to me in the desert for forty years, O house of Israel?
    26: But you carried a tabernacle for your Moloch, and the image of your idols, the star of your god, which you made to yourselves. 
    27: And I will cause you to go into captivity beyond Damascus, saith the Lord, the God of hosts is his name.

  Chapter 6.

    1: Woe to you that are wealthy in Sion, and to you that have confidence in the mountain of Samaria: ye great men, heads of the people, that go in with state into the house of Israel. 
    2: Pass ye over to Chalane, and see, and go from thence into Emath the great: and go down into Geth of the Philistines, and to all the best kingdoms of these: if their border be larger than your border. 
    3: You that are separated unto the evil day: and that approach to the throne of iniquity; 
    4: You that sleep upon beds of ivory, and are wanton on your couches: that eat the lambs out of the flock, and the calves out of the midst of the herd; 
    5: You that sing to the sound of the psaltery: they have thought themselves to have instruments of music like David;
    6: That drink wine in bowls, and anoint themselves with the best ointments: and they are not concerned for the affliction of Joseph. 
    7: Wherefore now they shall go captive at the head of them that go into captivity: and the faction of the luxurious ones shall be taken away. 
    8: The Lord God hath sworn by his own soul, saith the Lord the God of hosts: I detest the pride of Jacob, and I hate his houses, and I will deliver up the city with the inhabitants thereof. 
    9: And if there remain ten men in one house, they also shall die. 
    10: And a man's kinsman shall take him up, and shall burn him, that he may carry the bones out of the house; and he shall say to him that is in the inner rooms of the house: Is there yet any with thee?
    11: And he shall answer: There is an end. And he shall say to him: Hold thy peace, and mention not the name of the Lord. 
    12: For behold the Lord hath commanded, and he will strike the greater house with breaches, and the lesser house with clefts. 
    13: Can horses run upon the rocks, or can any one plough with buffles? for you have turned judgment into bitterness, and the fruit of justice into wormwood. 
    14: You that rejoice in a thing of nought: you that say: Have we not taken unto us horns by our own strength? 
    15: But behold, I will raise up a nation against you, O house of Israel, saith the Lord the God of hosts; and they shall destroy you from the entrance of Emath, even to the torrent of the desert.

  Chapter 7.

    1: These things the Lord God shewed to me: and behold the locust was formed in the beginning of the shooting up of the latter rain, and lo, it was the latter rain after the king's mowing. 
    2: And it came to pass, that when they had made an end of eating the grass of the land, I said: O Lord God, be merciful, I beseech thee: who shall raise up Jacob, for he is very little? 
    3: The Lord had pity upon this: It shall not be, said the Lord. 
    4: These things the Lord God shewed to me: and behold the Lord called for judgment unto fire, and it devoured the great deep, and ate up a part at the same time. 
    5: And I said: O Lord God, cease, I beseech thee, who shall raise up Jacob, for he is a little one?
    6: The Lord had pity upon this. Yea this also shall not be, said the Lord God. 
    7: These things the Lord shewed to me: and behold the Lord was standing upon a plastered wall, and in his hand a mason's trowel. 
    8: And the Lord said to me: What seest thou, Amos? And I said: A mason's trowel. And the Lord said: Behold, I will lay down the trowel in the midst of my people Israel. I will plaster them over no more. 
    9: And the high places of the idol shall be thrown down, and the sanctuaries of Israel shall be laid waste: and I will rise up against the house of Jeroboam with the sword. 
    10: And Amasias the priest of Bethel sent to Jeroboam king of Israel, saying: Amos hath rebelled against thee in the midst of the house of Israel: the land is not able to bear all his words.
    11: For thus saith Amos: Jeroboam shall die by the sword, and Israel shall be carried away captive out of their own land. 
    12: And Amasias said to Amos: Thou seer, go, flee away into the land of Juda: and eat bread there, and prophesy there. 
    13: But prophesy not again any more in Bethel: because it is the king's sanctuary, and it is the house of the kingdom. 
    14: And Amos answered and said to Amasias: I am not a prophet, nor am I the son of a prophet: but I am a herdsman plucking wild figs. 
    15: And the Lord took me when I followed the flock, and the Lord said to me: Go, prophesy to my people Israel.
    16: And now hear thou the word of the Lord: Thou sayest, thou shalt not prophesy against Israel, and thou shalt not drop thy word upon the house of the idol. 
    17: Therefore thus saith the Lord: Thy wife shall play the harlot in the city, and thy sons and thy daughters shall fall by the sword, and thy land shall be measured by a line: and thou shalt die in a polluted land, and Israel shall go into captivity out of their land.

  Chapter 8.

    1: These things the Lord shewed to me: and behold a hook to draw down the fruit. 
    2: And he said: What seest thou, Amos? And I said: A hook to draw down fruit. And the Lord said to me: The end is come upon my people Israel: I will not again pass by them any more. 
    3: And the hinges of the temple shall screak in that day, saith the Lord God: many shall die: silence shall be cast in every place. 
    4: Hear this, you that crush the poor, and make the needy of the land to fail, 
    5: Saying: When will the month be over, and we shall sell our wares: and the sabbath, and we shall open the corn: that we may lessen the measure, and increase the sicle, and may convey in deceitful balances,
    6: That we may possess the needy for money, and the poor for a pair of shoes, and may sell the refuse of the corn? 
    7: The Lord hath sworn against the pride of Jacob: surely I will never forget all their works. 
    8: Shall not the land tremble for this, and every one mourn that dwelleth therein: and rise up altogether as a river, and be cast out, and run down as the river of Egypt? 
    9: And it shall come to pass in that day, saith the Lord God, that the sun shall go down at midday, and I will make the earth dark in the day of light: 
    10: And I will turn your feasts into mourning, and all your songs into lamentation: and I will bring up sackcloth upon every back of yours, and baldness upon every head: and I will make it as the mourning of an only son, and the latter end thereof as a bitter day.
    11: Behold the days come, saith the Lord, and I will send forth a famine into the land: not a famine of bread, nor a thirst of water, but of hearing the word of the Lord. 
    12: And they shall move from sea to sea, and from the north to the east: they shall go about seeking the word of the Lord, and shall not find it. 
    13: In that day the fair virgins, and the young men shall faint for thirst. 
    14: They that swear by the sin of Samaria, and say: Thy God, O Dan, liveth: and the way of Bersabee liveth: and they shall fall, and shall rise no more.

End of day 269.