Day 208:

Reading Sirach, chapters ['33', '34', '35', '36']:

  Chapter 33.

    1: No evils shall happen to him that feareth the Lord, but in temptation God will keep him, and deliver him from evils. 
    2: A wise man hateth not the commandments and justices, and he shall not be dashed in pieces as a ship in a storm. 
    3: A man of understanding is faithful to the law of God, and the law is faithful to him. 
    4: He that cleareth up a question, shall prepare what to say, and so having prayed he shall be heard, and shall keep discipline, and then he shall answer. 
    5: The heart of a fool is as a wheel of a cart: and his thoughts are like a rolling axletree.
    6: A friend that is a mocker, is like a stallion horse: he neigheth under every one that sitteth upon him. 
    7: Why doth one day excel another, and one light another, and one year another year, when all come of the sun? 
    8: By the knowledge of the Lord they were distinguished, the sun being made, and keeping his commandment. 
    9: And he ordered the seasons, and holidays of them, and in them they celebrated festivals at an hour. 
    10: Some of them God made high and great days, and some of them he put in the number of ordinary days. And all men are from the ground, and out of the earth, from whence Adam was created.
    11: With much knowledge the Lord hath divided them and diversified their ways. 
    12: Some of them hath he blessed, and exalted: and some of them hath he sanctified, and set near himself: and some of them hath he cursed and brought low, and turned them from their station. 
    13: As the potter's clay is in his hand, to fashion and order it: 
    14: All his ways are according to his ordering: so man is in the hand of him that made him, and he will render to him according to his judgment. 
    15: Good is set against evil, and life against death: so also is the sinner against a just man. And so look upon all the works of the most High. Two and two, and one against another.
    16: And I awaked last of all, and as one that gathereth after the grapegatherers. 
    17: In the blessing of God I also have hoped: and as one that gathereth grapes, have I filled the winepress. 
    18: See that I have not laboured for myself only, but for all that seek discipline. 
    19: Hear me, ye great men, and all ye people, and hearken with your ears, ye rulers of the church. 
    20: Give not to son or wife, brother or friend, power over thee while thou livest; and give not thy estate to another, lest then repent, and thou entreat for the same.
    21: As long as thou livest, and hast breath in thee, let no man change thee. 
    22: For it is better that thy children should ask of thee, than that thou look toward the hands of thy children. 
    23: In all thy works keep the pre-eminence. 
    24: Let no stain sully thy glory. In the time when thou shalt end the days of thy life, and in the time of thy decease, distribute thy inheritance. 
    25: Fodder, and a wand, and a burden are for an ass: bread, and correction, and work for a slave.
    26: He worketh under correction, and seeketh to rest: let his hands be idle, and he seeketh liberty. 
    27: The yoke and the thong bend a stiff neck, and continual labours bow a slave. 
    28: Torture and fetters are for a malicious slave: send him to work, that he be not idle: 
    29: For idleness hath taught much evil. 
    30: Set him to work: for so it is fit for him. And if he be not obedient, bring him down with fetters, but be not excessive towards any one: and do no grievous thing without judgment.
    31: If thou have a faithful servant, let him be to thee as thy own soul: treat him as a brother: because in the blood of thy soul thou hast gotten him. 
    32: If thou hurt him unjustly, he will run away: 
    33: And if he rise up and depart, thou knowest not whom to ask, and in what way to seek him.

  Chapter 34.

    1: The hopes of a man that is void of understanding are vain and deceitful: and dreams lift up fools. 
    2: The man that giveth heed to lying visions, is like to him that catcheth at a shadow, and followeth after the wind. 
    3: The vision of dreams is the resemblance of one thing to another: as when a man's likeness is before the face of a man. 
    4: What can be made clean by the unclean? and what truth can come from that which is false? 
    5: Deceitful divinations and lying omens and the dreams of evildoers, are vanity:
    6: And the heart fancieth as that of a woman in travail: except it be a vision sent forth from the most High, set no thy heart upon them. 
    7: For dreams have deceived many, and they have failed that put their trust in them. 
    8: The word of the law shall be fulfilled without a lie, and wisdom shall be made plain in the mouth of the faithful. 
    9: What doth he know, that hath not been tried? A man that hath much experience, shall think of many things: and he that hath learned many things, shall shew forth understanding. 
    10: He that hath no experience, knoweth little: and he that hath been experienced in many things, multiplieth prudence.
    11: He that hath not been tried, what manner of things doth he know? he that hath been surprised, shall abound with subtlety. 
    12: I have seen many things by travelling, and many customs of things. 
    13: Sometimes I have been in danger of death for these things, and I have been delivered by the grace of God. 
    14: The spirit of those that fear God; is sought after, and by his regard shall be blessed. 
    15: For their hope is on him that saveth them, and the eyes of God are upon them that love him.
    16: He that feareth the Lord shall tremble at nothing, and shall not be afraid for he is his hope. 
    17: The soul of him that feareth the Lord is blessed. 
    18: To whom doth he look, and who in his strength? 
    19: The eyes of the Lord are upon them that fear him, he is their powerful protector, and strong stay, a defence from the heat, and a cover from the sun at noon, 
    20: A preservation from stumbling, and a help from falling; he raiseth up the soul, and enlighteneth the eyes, and giveth health, and life, and blessing.
    21: The offering of him that sacrificeth of a thing wrongfully gotten, is stained, and the mockeries of the unjust are not acceptable. 
    22: The Lord is only for them that wait upon him in the way of truth and justice. 
    23: The most High approveth not the gifts of the wicked: neither hath he respect to the oblations of the unjust, nor will he be pacified for sins by the multitude of their sacrifices. 
    24: He that offereth sacrifice of the goods of the poor, is as one that sacrificeth the son in the presence of his father. 
    25: The bread of the needy, is the life of the poor: he that defraudeth them thereof, is a man of blood.
    26: He that taketh away the bread gotten by sweat, is like him that killeth his neighbour. 
    27: He that sheddeth blood, and he that defraudeth the labourer of his hire, are brothers. 
    28: When one buildeth up, and another pulleth down: what profit have they but the labour? 
    29: When one prayeth, and another curseth: whose voice will God hear? 
    30: He that washeth himself after touching the dead, if he toucheth him again, what doth his washing avail?
    31: So a man that fasteth for his sins, and doth the same again, what doth his humbling himself profit him? who will hear his prayer?

  Chapter 35.

    1: He that keepeth the law, multiplieth offerings. 
    2: It is a wholesome sacrifice to take heed to the commandments, and to depart from all iniquity. 
    3: And to depart from injustice, is to offer a propitiatory sacrifice for injustices, and a begging of pardon for sins. 
    4: He shall return thanks, that offereth fine flour: and he that doth mercy, offereth sacrifice. 
    5: To depart from iniquity is that which pleaseth the Lord, and to depart from injustice, is an entreaty for sins.
    6: Thou shalt not appear empty in the sight of the Lord. 
    7: For all these things are to be done because of the commandment of God. 
    8: The oblation of the just maketh the altar fat, and is an odour of sweetness in the sight of the most High. 
    9: The sacrifice of the just is acceptable, and the Lord will not forget the memorial thereof. 
    10: Give glory to God with a good heart: and diminish not the firstfruits of thy hands.
    11: In every gift shew a cheerful countenance, and sanctify thy tithes with joy. 
    12: Give to the most High according to what he hath given to thee, and with a good eye do according to the ability of thy hands: 
    13: For the Lord maketh recompense, and will give thee seven times as much. 
    14: Do not offer wicked gifts, for such he will not receive. 
    15: And look not upon an unjust sacrifice, for the Lord is judge, and there is not with him respect of person.
    16: The Lord will not accept any person against a poor man, and he will hear the prayer of him that is wronged. 
    17: He will not despise the prayers of the fatherless; nor the widow, when she poureth out her complaint. 
    18: Do not the widow's tears run down the cheek, and her cry against him that causeth them to fall? 
    19: For from the cheek they go up even to heaven, and the Lord that heareth will not be delighted with them. 
    20: He that adoreth God with joy, shall be accepted, and his prayer shall approach even to the clouds.
    21: The prayer of him that humbleth himself, shall pierce the clouds: and till it come nigh he will not be comforted: and he will not depart till the most High behold. 
    22: And the Lord will not be slack, but will judge for the just, and will do judgment: and the Almighty will not have patience with them, that he may crush their back: 
    23: And he will repay vengeance to the Gentiles, till he have taken away the multitude of the proud, and broken the sceptres of the unjust, 
    24: Till he have rendered to men according to their deeds: and according to the works of Adam, and according to his presumption, 
    25: Till he have judged the cause of his people, and he shall delight the just with his mercy.
    26: The mercy of God is beautiful in the time of affliction, as a cloud of rain in the time of drought.

  Chapter 36.

    1: Have mercy upon us, O God of all, and behold us, and shew us the light of thy mercies: 
    2: And send thy fear upon the nations, that have not sought after thee: that they may know that there is no God beside thee, and that they may shew forth thy wonders. 
    3: Lift up thy hand over the strange nations, that they may see thy power. 
    4: For as thou hast been sanctified in us in their sight, so thou shalt be magnified among them in our presence, 
    5: That they may know thee, as we also have known thee, that there is no God beside thee, O Lord.
    6: Renew thy signs, and work new miracles. 
    7: Glorify thy hand, and thy right arm. 
    8: Raise up indignation, and pour out wrath. 
    9: Take away the adversary, and crush the enemy. 
    10: Hasten the time, and remember the end, that they may declare thy wonderful works.
    11: Let him that escapeth be consumed by the rage of the fire: and let them perish that oppress thy people. 
    12: Crush the head of the princes of the enemies that say: There is no other beside us. 
    13: Gather together all the tribes of Jacob: that they may know that there is no God besides thee, and may declare thy great works: and thou shalt inherit them as from the beginning. 
    14: Have mercy on thy people, upon whom thy name is invoked: and upon Israel, whom thou hast raised up to be thy firstborn. 
    15: Have mercy on Jerusalem, the city which thou hast sanctified, the city of thy rest.
    16: Fill Sion with thy unspeakable words, and thy people with thy glory. 
    17: Give testimony to them that are thy creatures from the beginning, and raise up the prophecies which the former prophets spoke in thy name. 
    18: Reward them that patiently wait for thee, that thy prophets may be found faithful: and hear the prayers of thy servants, 
    19: According to the blessing of Aaron over thy people, and direct us into the way of justice, and let all know that dwell upon the earth, that thou art God the beholder of all ages. 
    20: The belly will devour all meat, yet one is better than another.
    21: The palate tasteth venison and the wise heart false speeches. 
    22: A perverse heart will cause grief, and a man of experience will resist it. 
    23: A woman will receive every man: yet one daughter is better than another. 
    24: The beauty of a woman cheereth the countenance of her husband, and a man desireth nothing more. 
    25: If she have a tongue that can cure, and likewise mitigate and shew mercy: her husband is not like other men.
    26: He that possesseth a good wife, beginneth a possession: she is a help like to himself, and a pillar of rest. 
    27: Where there is no hedge, the possession shall be spoiled: and where there is no wife, he mourneth that is in want. 
    28: Who will trust him that hath no rest, and that lodgeth wheresoever the night taketh him, as a robber well appointed, that skippeth from city to city.

End of day 208.