Day 285:

Reading Matthew, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain, and when he was set down, his disciples came unto him. 
    2: And opening his mouth, he taught them, saying: 
    3: Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. 
    4: Blessed are the meek: for they shall possess the land. 
    5: Blessed are they that mourn: for they shall be comforted.
    6: Blessed are they that hunger and thirst after justice: for they shall have their fill. 
    7: Blessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy. 
    8: Blessed are the clean of heart: for they shall see God. 
    9: Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called children of God. 
    10: Blessed are they that suffer persecution for justice' sake: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
    11: Blessed are ye when they shall revile you, and persecute you, and speak all that is evil against you, untruly, for my sake: 
    12: Be glad and rejoice, for your reward is very great in heaven. For so they persecuted the prophets that were before you. 
    13: You are the salt of the earth. But if the salt lose its savour, wherewith shall it be salted? It is good for nothing any more but to be cast out, and to be trodden on by men. 
    14: You are the light of the world. A city seated on a mountain cannot be hid. 
    15: Neither do men light a candle and put it under a bushel, but upon a candlestick, that it may shine to all that are in the house.
    16: So let your light shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father who is in heaven. 
    17: Do not think that I am come to destroy the law, or the prophets. I am not come to destroy, but to fulfill. 
    18: For amen I say unto you, till heaven and earth pass, one jot, or one tittle shall not pass of the law, till all be fulfilled. 
    19: He therefore that shall break one of these least commandments, and shall so teach men, shall be called the least in the kingdom of heaven. But he that shall do and teach, he shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. 
    20: For I tell you, that unless your justice abound more than that of the scribes and Pharisees, you shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven.
    21: You have heard that it was said to them of old: Thou shalt not kill. And whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment. 
    22: But I say to you, that whosoever is angry with his brother, shall be in danger of the judgment. And whosoever shall say to his brother, Raca, shall be in danger of the council. And whosoever shall say, Thou Fool, shall be in danger of hell fire. 
    23: If therefore thou offer thy gift at the altar, and there thou remember that thy brother hath any thing against thee; 
    24: Leave there thy offering before the altar, and go first to be reconciled to thy brother: and then coming thou shalt offer thy gift. 
    25: Be at agreement with thy adversary betimes, whilst thou art in the way with him: lest perhaps the adversary deliver thee to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to the officer, and thou be cast into prison.
    26: Amen I say to thee, thou shalt not go out from thence till thou repay the last farthing. 
    27: You have heard that it was said to them of old: Thou shalt not commit adultery. 
    28: But I say to you, that whosoever shall look on a woman to lust after her, hath already committed adultery with her in his heart. 
    29: And if thy right eye scandalize thee, pluck it out and cast it from thee. For it is expedient for thee that one of thy members should perish, rather than that thy whole body be cast into hell. 
    30: And if thy right hand scandalize thee, cut it off, and cast it from thee: for it is expedient for thee that one of thy members should perish, rather than that thy whole body be cast into hell.
    31: And it hath been said, whosoever shall put away his wife, let him give her a bill of divorce. 
    32: But I say to you, that whosoever shall put away his wife, excepting for the cause of fornication, maketh her to commit adultery: and he that shall marry her that is put away, committeth adultery. 
    33: Again you have heard that it was said to them of old, Thou shalt not forswear thyself: but thou shalt perform thy oaths to the Lord. 
    34: But I say to you not to swear at all, neither by heaven, for it is the throne of God: 
    35: Nor by the earth, for it is his footstool: nor by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great king:
    36: Neither shalt thou swear by thy head, because thou canst not make one hair white or black. 
    37: But let your speech be yea, yea: no, no: and that which is over and above these, is of evil. 
    38: You have heard that it hath been said, An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth. 
    39: But I say to you not to resist evil: but if one strike thee on thy right cheek, turn to him also the other: 
    40: And if a man will contend with thee in judgment, and take away thy coat, let go thy cloak also unto him.
    41: And whosoever will force thee one mile, go with him other two, 
    42: Give to him that asketh of thee and from him that would borrow of thee turn not away. 
    43: You have heard that it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbour, and hate thy enemy. 
    44: But I say to you, Love your enemies: do good to them that hate you: and pray for them that persecute and calumniate you: 
    45: That you may be the children of your Father who is in heaven, who maketh his sun to rise upon the good, and bad, and raineth upon the just and the unjust.
    46: For if you love them that love you, what reward shall you have? do not even the publicans this? 
    47: And if you salute your brethren only, what do you more? do not also the heathens this? 
    48: Be you therefore perfect, as also your heavenly Father is perfect.

  Chapter 6.

    1: Take heed that you do not your justice before men, to be seen by them: otherwise you shall not have a reward of your Father who is in heaven. 
    2: Therefore when thou dost an almsdeed, sound not a trumpet before thee, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may be honoured by men. Amen I say to you, they have received their reward. 
    3: But when thou dost alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doth. 
    4: That thy alms may be in secret, and thy Father who seeth in secret will repay thee. 
    5: And when ye pray, you shall not be as the hypocrites, that love to stand and pray in the synagogues and corners of the streets, that they may be seen by men: Amen I say to you, they have received their reward.
    6: But thou when thou shalt pray, enter into thy chamber, and having shut the door, pray to thy Father in secret: and thy Father who seeth in secret will repay thee. 
    7: And when you are praying, speak not much, as the heathens. For they think that in their much speaking they may be heard. 
    8: Be not you therefore like to them, for your Father knoweth what is needful for you, before you ask him. 
    9: Thus therefore shall you pray: Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. 
    10: Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven.
    11: Give us this day our supersubstantial bread. 
    12: And forgive us our debts, as we also forgive our debtors. 
    13: And lead us not into temptation. But deliver us from evil. Amen. 
    14: For if you will forgive men their offences, your heavenly Father will forgive you also your offences. 
    15: But if you will not forgive men, neither will your Father forgive you your offences.
    16: And when you fast, be not as the hypocrites, sad. For they disfigure their faces, that they may appear unto men to fast. Amen I say to you, they have received their reward. 
    17: But thou, when thou fastest anoint thy head, and wash thy face; 
    18: That thou appear not to men to fast, but to thy Father who is in secret: and thy Father who seeth in secret, will repay thee. 
    19: Lay not up to yourselves treasures on earth: where the rust, and moth consume, and where thieves break through and steal. 
    20: But lay up to yourselves treasures in heaven: where neither the rust nor moth doth consume, and where thieves do not break through, nor steal.
    21: For where thy treasure is, there is thy heart also. 
    22: The light of thy body is thy eye. If thy eye be single, thy whole body shall be lightsome. 
    23: But if thy eye be evil thy whole body shall be darksome. If then the light that is in thee, be darkness: the darkness itself how great shall it be! 
    24: No man can serve two masters. For either he will hate the one, and love the other: or he will sustain the one, and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon. 
    25: Therefore I say to you, be not solicitous for your life, what you shall eat, nor for your body, what you shall put on. Is not the life more than the meat: and the body more than the raiment?
    26: Behold the birds of the air, for they neither sow, nor do they reap, nor gather into barns: and your heavenly Father feedeth them. Are not you of much more value than they? 
    27: And which of you by taking thought, can add to his stature by one cubit? 
    28: And for raiment why are you solicitous? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow: they labour not, neither do they spin. 
    29: But I say to you, that not even Solomon in all his glory was arrayed as one of these. 
    30: And if the grass of the field, which is today, and tomorrow is cast into the oven, God doth so clothe: how much more you, O ye of little faith?
    31: Be not solicitous therefore, saying, What shall we eat: or what shall we drink, or wherewith shall we be clothed? 
    32: For after all these things do the heathens seek. For your Father knoweth that you have need of all these things. 
    33: Seek ye therefore first the kingdom of God, and his justice, and all these things shall be added unto you. 
    34: Be not therefore solicitous for tomorrow; for the morrow will be solicitous for itself. Sufficient for the day is the evil thereof.

  Chapter 7.

    1: Judge not, that you may not be judged, 
    2: For with what judgment you judge, you shall be judged: and with what measure you mete, it shall be measured to you again. 
    3: And why seest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye; and seest not the beam that is in thy own eye? 
    4: Or how sayest thou to thy brother: Let me cast the mote out of thy eye; and behold a beam is in thy own eye? 
    5: Thou hypocrite, cast out first the beam in thy own eye, and then shalt thou see to cast out the mote out of thy brother's eye.
    6: Give not that which is holy to dogs; neither cast ye your pearls before swine, lest perhaps they trample them under their feet, and turning upon you, they tear you. 
    7: Ask, and it shall be given you: seek, and you shall find: knock, and it shall be opened to you. 
    8: For every one that asketh, receiveth: and he that seeketh, findeth: and to him that knocketh, it shall be opened. 
    9: Or what man is there among you, of whom if his son shall ask bread, will he reach him a stone? 
    10: Or if he shall ask him a fish, will he reach him a serpent?
    11: If you then being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children: how much more will your Father who is in heaven, give good things to them that ask him? 
    12: All things therefore whatsoever you would that men should do to you, do you also to them. For this is the law and the prophets. 
    13: Enter ye in at the narrow gate: for wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leadeth to destruction, and many there are who go in thereat. 
    14: How narrow is the gate, and strait is the way that leadeth to life: and few there are that find it! 
    15: Beware of false prophets, who come to you in the clothing of sheep, but inwardly they are ravening wolves.
    16: By their fruits you shall know them. Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles? 
    17: Even so every good tree bringeth forth good fruit, and the evil tree bringeth forth evil fruit. 
    18: A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can an evil tree bring forth good fruit. 
    19: Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit, shall be cut down, and shall be cast into the fire. 
    20: Wherefore by their fruits you shall know them.
    21: Not every one that saith to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven: but he that doth the will of my Father who is in heaven, he shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. 
    22: Many will say to me in that day: Lord, Lord, have not we prophesied in thy name, and cast out devils in thy name, and done many miracles in thy name? 
    23: And then will I profess unto them, I never knew you: depart from me, you that work iniquity. 
    24: Every one therefore that heareth these my words, and doth them, shall be likened to a wise man that built his house upon a rock, 
    25: And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and they beat upon that house, and it fell not, for it was founded on a rock.
    26: And every one that heareth these my words, and doth them not, shall be like a foolish man that built his house upon the sand, 
    27: And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and they beat upon that house, and it fell, and great was the fall thereof. 
    28: And it came to pass when Jesus had fully ended these words, the people were in admiration at his doctrine. 
    29: For he was teaching them as one having power, and not as the scribes and Pharisees.

  Chapter 8.

    1: And when he was come down from the mountain, great multitudes followed him: 
    2: And behold a leper came and adored him, saying: Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean. 
    3: And Jesus stretching forth his hand, touched him, saying: I will, be thou made clean. And forthwith his leprosy was cleansed. 
    4: And Jesus saith to him: See thou tell no man: but go, shew thyself to the priest, and offer the gift which Moses commanded for a testimony unto them. 
    5: And when he had entered into Capharnaum, there came to him a centurion, beseeching him,
    6: And saying, Lord, my servant lieth at home sick of the palsy, and is grieviously tormented. 
    7: And Jesus saith to him: I will come and heal him. 
    8: And the centurion making answer, said: Lord, I am not worthy that thou shouldst enter under my roof: but only say the word, and my servant shall be healed. 
    9: For I also am a man subject to authority, having under me soldiers; and I say to this, Go, and he goeth, and to another, Come, and he cometh, and to my servant, Do this, and he doeth it. 
    10: And Jesus hearing this, marvelled; and said to them that followed him: Amen I say to you, I have not found so great faith in Israel.
    11: And I say to you that many shall come from the east and the west, and shall sit down with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven: 
    12: But the children of the kingdom shall be cast out into the exterior darkness: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. 
    13: And Jesus said to the centurion: Go, and as thou hast believed, so be it done to thee. And the servant was healed at the same hour. 
    14: And when Jesus was come into Peter's house, he saw his wife's mother lying, and sick of a fever: 
    15: And he touched her hand, and the fever left her, and she arose and ministered to them.
    16: And when evening was come, they brought to him many that were possessed with devils: and he cast out the spirits with his word: and all that were sick he healed: 
    17: That it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the prophet Isaias, saying: He took our infirmities, and bore our diseases. 
    18: And Jesus seeing great multitudes about him, gave orders to pass over the water. 
    19: And a certain scribe came and said to him: Master, I will follow thee whithersoever thou shalt go. 
    20: And Jesus saith to him: The foxes have holes, and the birds of the air nests: but the son of man hath not where to lay his head.
    21: And another of his disciples said to him: Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my father. 
    22: But Jesus said to him: Follow me, and let the dead bury their dead. 
    23: And when he entered into the boat, his disciples followed him: 
    24: And behold a great tempest arose in the sea, so that the boat was covered with waves, but he was asleep. 
    25: And they came to him, and awaked him, saying: Lord, save us, we perish.
    26: And Jesus saith to them: Why are you fearful, O ye of little faith? Then rising up he commanded the winds, and the sea, and there came a great calm. 
    27: But the men wondered, saying: What manner of man is this, for the winds and the sea obey him? 
    28: And when he was come on the other side of the water, into the country of the Gerasens, there met him two that were possessed with devils, coming out of the sepulchres, exceeding fierce, so that none could pass by that way. 
    29: And behold they cried out, saying: What have we to do with thee, Jesus Son of God? art thou come hither to torment us before the time? 
    30: And there was, not far from them, an herd of many swine feeding.
    31: And the devils besought him, saying: If thou cast us out hence, send us into the herd of swine. 
    32: And he said to them: Go. But they going out went into the swine, and behold the whole herd ran violently down a steep place into the sea: and they perished in the waters. 
    33: And they that kept them fled: and coming into the city, told every thing, and concerning them that had been possessed by the devils. 
    34: And behold the whole city went out to meet Jesus, and when they saw him, they besought him that he would depart from their coasts.

End of day 285.