Day 309:

Reading Acts, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: And Saul, as yet breathing out threatenings and slaughter against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest, 
    2: And asked of him letters to Damascus, to the synagogues: that if he found any men and women of this way, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem. 
    3: And as he went on his journey, it came to pass that he drew nigh to Damascus; and suddenly a light from heaven shined round about him. 
    4: And falling on the ground, he heard a voice saying to him: Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? 
    5: Who said: Who art thou, Lord? And he: I am Jesus whom thou persecutest. It is hard for thee to kick against the goad.
    6: And he trembling and astonished, said: Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? 
    7: And the Lord said to him: Arise, and go into the city, and there it shall be told thee what thou must do. Now the men who went in company with him, stood amazed, hearing indeed a voice, but seeing no man. 
    8: And Saul arose from the ground; and when his eyes were opened, he saw nothing. But they leading him by the hands, brought him to Damascus. 
    9: And he was there three days, without sight, and he did neither eat nor drink. 
    10: Now there was a certain disciple at Damascus, named Ananias. And the Lord said to him in a vision: Ananias. And he said: Behold I am here, Lord.
    11: And the Lord said to him: Arise, and go into the street that is called Stait, and seek in the house of Judas, one named Saul of Tarsus. For behold he prayeth. 
    12: (And he saw a man named Ananias coming in, and putting his hands upon him, that he might receive his sight.) 
    13: But Ananias answered: Lord, I have heard by many of this man, how much evil he hath done to thy saints in Jerusalem. 
    14: And here he hath authority from the chief priests to bind all that invoke thy name. 
    15: And the Lord said to him: Go thy way; for this man is to me a vessel of election, to carry my name before the Gentiles, and kings, and the children of Israel.
    16: For I will shew him how great things he must suffer for my name's sake. 
    17: And Ananias went his way, and entered into the house. And laying his hands upon him, he said: Brother Saul, the Lord Jesus hath sent me, he that appeared to thee in the way as thou camest; that thou mayest receive thy sight, and be filled with the Holy Ghost. 
    18: And immediately there fell from his eyes as it were scales, and he received his sight; and rising up, he was baptized. 
    19: And when he had taken meat, he was strengthened. And he was with the disciples that were at Damascus, for some days. 
    20: And immediately he preached Jesus in the synagogues, that he is the Son of God.
    21: And all that heard him, were astonished, and said: Is not this he who persecuted in Jerusalem those that called upon this name: and came hither for that intent, that he might carry them bound to the chief priests? 
    22: But Saul increased much more in strength, and confounded the Jews who dwelt at Damascus, affirming that this is the Christ. 
    23: And when many days were passed, the Jews consulted together to kill him. 
    24: But their laying in wait was made known to Saul. And they watched the gates also day and night, that they might kill him. 
    25: But the disciples taking him in the night, conveyed him away by the wall, letting him down in a basket.
    26: And when he was come into Jerusalem, he essayed to join himself to the disciples; and they all were afraid of him, not believing that he was a disciple. 
    27: But Barnabas took him, and brought him to the apostles, and told them how he had seen the Lord, and that he had spoken to him; and how in Damascus he had dealt confidently in the name of Jesus. 
    28: And he was with them coming in and going out in Jerusalem, and dealing confidently in the name of the Lord. 
    29: He spoke also to the Gentiles, and disputed with the Greeks; but they sought to kill him. 
    30: Which when the brethren had known, they brought him down to Caesarea, and sent him away to Tarsus.
    31: Now the church had peace throughout all Judea, and Galilee, and Samaria; and was edified, walking in the fear of the Lord, and was filled with the consolation of the Holy Ghost. 
    32: And it came to pass that Peter, as he passed through, visiting all, came to the saints who dwelt at Lydda. 
    33: And he found there a certain man named Eneas, who had kept his bed for eight years, who was ill of the palsy. 
    34: And Peter said to him: Eneas, the Lord Jesus Christ healeth thee: arise, and make thy bed. And immediately he arose. 
    35: And all that dwelt at Lydda and Saron, saw him: who were converted to the Lord.
    36: And in Joppe there was a certain disciple named Tabitha, which by interpretation is called Dorcas. This woman was full of good works and almsdeeds which she did. 
    37: And it came to pass in those days that she was sick, and died. Whom when they had washed, they laid her in an upper chamber. 
    38: And forasmuch as Lydda was nigh to Joppe, the disciples hearing that Peter was there, sent unto him two men, desiring him that he would not be slack to come unto them. 
    39: And Peter rising up, went with them. And when he was come, they brought him into the upper chamber. And all the widows stood about him weeping, and shewing him the coats and garments which Dorcas made them. 
    40: And they all being put forth, Peter kneeling down prayed, and turning to the body, he said: Tabitha, arise. And she opened her eyes; and seeing Peter, she sat up.
    41: And giving her his hand, he lifted her up. And when he had called the saints and the widows, he presented her alive. 
    42: And it was made known throughout all Joppe; and many believed in the Lord. 
    43: And it came to pass, that he abode many days in Joppe, with one Simon a tanner.

  Chapter 10.

    1: And there was a certain man in Caesarea, named Cornelius, a centurion of that which is called the Italian band; 
    2: A religious man, and fearing God with all his house, giving much alms to the people, and always praying to God. 
    3: This man saw in a vision manifestly, about the ninth hour of the day, an angel of God coming in unto him, and saying to him: Cornelius. 
    4: And he, beholding him, being seized with fear, said: What is it, Lord? And he said to him: Thy prayers and thy alms are ascended for a memorial in the sight of God. 
    5: And now send men to Joppe, and call hither one Simon, who is surnamed Peter:
    6: He lodgeth with one Simon a tanner, whose house is by the sea side. He will tell thee what thou must do. 
    7: And when the angel who spoke to him was departed, he called two of his household servants, and a soldier who feared the Lord, of them that were under him. 
    8: To whom when he had related all, he sent them to Joppe. 
    9: And on the next day, whilst they were going on their journey, and drawing nigh to the city, Peter went up to the higher parts of the house to pray, about the sixth hour. 
    10: And being hungry, he was desirous to taste somewhat. And as they were preparing, there came upon him an ecstasy of mind.
    11: And he saw the heaven opened, and a certain vessel descending, as it were a great linen sheet let down by the four corners from heaven to the earth: 
    12: Wherein were all manner of fourfooted beasts, and creeping things of the earth, and fowls of the air. 
    13: And there came a voice to him: Arise, Peter; kill and eat. 
    14: But Peter said: Far be it from me; for I never did eat any thing that is common and unclean. 
    15: And the voice spoke to him again the second time: That which God hath cleansed, do not thou call common.
    16: And this was done thrice; and presently the vessel was taken up into heaven. 
    17: Now, whilst Peter was doubting within himself, what the vision that he had seen should mean, behold the men who were sent from Cornelius, inquiring for Simon's house, stood at the gate. 
    18: And when they had called, they asked, if Simon, who is surnamed Peter, were lodged there. 
    19: And as Peter was thinking of the vision, the Spirit said to him: Behold three men seek thee. 
    20: Arise, therefore, get thee down and go with them, doubting nothing: for I have sent them.
    21: Then Peter, going down to the men, said: Behold, I am he whom you seek; what is the cause for which you are come? 
    22: Who said: Cornelius, a centurion, a just man, and one that feareth God, and having good testimony from all the nation of the Jews, received an answer of an holy angel, to send for thee into his house, and to hear words of thee. 
    23: Then bringing them in, he lodged them. And the day following he arose, and went with them: and some of the brethren from Joppe accompanied him. 
    24: And the morrow after, he entered into Caesarea. And Cornelius waited for them, having called together his kinsmen and special friends. 
    25: And it came to pass, that when Peter was come in, Cornelius came to meet him, and falling at his feet adored.
    26: But Peter lifted him up, saying: Arise, I myself also am a man. 
    27: And talking with him, he went in, and found many that were come together. 
    28: And he said to them: You know how abominable it is for a man that is a Jew, to keep company or to come unto one of another nation: but God hath shewed to me, to call no man common or unclean. 
    29: For which cause, making no doubt, I came when I was sent for. I ask, therefore, for what cause you have sent for me? 
    30: And Cornelius said: Four days ago, unto this hour, I was praying in my house, at the ninth hour, and behold a man stood before me in white apparel, and said:
    31: Cornelius, thy prayer is heard, and thy alms are had in remembrance in the sight of God. 
    32: Send therefore to Joppe, and call hither Simon, who is surnamed Peter: he lodgeth in the house of Simon a tanner, by the sea side. 
    33: Immediately therefore I sent to thee: and thou hast done well in coming. Now therefore all we are present in thy sight, to hear all things whatsoever are commanded thee by the Lord. 
    34: And Peter opening his mouth, said: In very deed I perceive, that God is not a respecter of persons. 
    35: But in every nation, he that feareth him, and worketh justice, is acceptable to him.
    36: God sent the word to the children of Israel, preaching peace by Jesus Christ: (he is Lord of all.) 
    37: You know the word which hath been published through all Judea: for it began from Galilee, after the baptism which John preached, 
    38: Jesus of Nazareth: how God anointed him with the Holy Ghost, and with power, who went about doing good, and healing all that were oppressed by the devil, for God was with him. 
    39: And we are witnesses of all things that he did in the land of the Jews and in Jerusalem, whom they killed, hanging him upon a tree. 
    40: Him God raised up the third day, and gave him to be made manifest,
    41: Not to all the people, but to witnesses preordained by God, even to us, who did eat and drink with him after he arose again from the dead; 
    42: And he commanded us to preach to the people, and to testify that it is he who was appointed by God, to be judge of the living and of the dead. 
    43: To him all the prophets give testimony, that by his name all receive remission of sins, who believe in him. 
    44: While Peter was yet speaking these words, the Holy Ghost fell on all them that heard the word. 
    45: And the faithful of the circumcision, who came with Peter, were astonished, for that the grace of the Holy Ghost was poured out upon the Gentiles also.
    46: For they heard them speaking with tongues, and magnifying God. 
    47: Then Peter answered: Can any man forbid water, that these should not be baptized, who have received the Holy Ghost, as well as we? 
    48: And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Then they desired him to tarry with them some days.

  Chapter 11.

    1: And the apostles and brethren, who were in Judea, heard that the Gentiles also had received the word of God. 
    2: And when Peter was come up to Jerusalem, they that were of the circumcision contended with him, 
    3: Saying: Why didst thou go in to men uncircumcised, and didst eat with them? 
    4: But Peter began and declared to them the matter in order, saying: 
    5: I was in the city of Joppe praying, and I saw in an ecstasy of mind a vision, a certain vessel descending, as it were a great sheet let down from heaven by four corners, and it came even unto me.
    6: Into which looking, I considered, and saw fourfooted creatures of the earth, and beasts, and creeping things, and fowls of the air: 
    7: And I heard also a voice saying to me: Arise, Peter; kill and eat. 
    8: And I said: Not so, Lord; for nothing common or unclean hath ever entered into my mouth. 
    9: And the voice answered again from heaven: What God hath made clean, do not thou call common. 
    10: And this was done three times: and all were taken up again into heaven.
    11: And behold, immediately there were three men come to the house wherein I was, sent to me from Caesarea. 
    12: And the Spirit said to me, that I should go with them, nothing doubting. And these six brethren went with me also: and we entered into the man's house. 
    13: And he told us how he had seen an angel in his house, standing, and saying to him: Send to Joppe, and call hither Simon, who is surnamed Peter, 
    14: Who shall speak to thee words, whereby thou shalt be saved, and all thy house. 
    15: And when I had begun to speak, the Holy Ghost fell upon them, as upon us also in the beginning.
    16: And I remembered the word of the Lord, how that he said: John indeed baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost. 
    17: If then God gave them the same grace, as to us also who believed in the Lord Jesus Christ; who was I, that could withstand God? 
    18: Having heard these things, they held their peace, and glorified God, saying: God then hath also to the Gentiles given repentance unto life. 
    19: Now they who had been dispersed by the persecution that arose on occasion of Stephen, went about as far as Phenice and Cyprus and Antioch, speaking the word to none, but to the Jews only. 
    20: But some of them were men of Cyprus and Cyrene, who, when they were entered into Antioch, spoke also to the Greeks, preaching the Lord Jesus.
    21: And the hand of the Lord was with them: and a great number believing, were converted to the Lord. 
    22: And the tidings came to the ears of the church that was at Jerusalem, touching these things: and they sent Barnabas as far as Antioch. 
    23: Who, when he was come, and had seen the grace of God, rejoiced: and he exhorted them all with purpose of heart to continue in the Lord. 
    24: For he was a good man, and full of the Holy Ghost and of faith. And a great multitude was added to the Lord. 
    25: And Barnabas went to Tarsus to seek Saul: whom, when he had found, he brought to Antioch.
    26: And they conversed there in the church a whole year; and they taught a great multitude, so that at Antioch the disciples were first named Christians. 
    27: And in these days there came prophets from Jerusalem to Antioch: 
    28: And one of them named Agabus, rising up, signified by the Spirit, that there should be a great famine over the whole world, which came to pass under Claudius. 
    29: And the disciples, every man according to his ability, purposed to send relief to the brethren who dwelt in Judea: 
    30: Which also they did, sending it to the ancients, by the hands of Barnabas and Saul.

  Chapter 12.

    1: And at the same time, Herod the king stretched forth his hands, to afflict some of the church. 
    2: And he killed James, the brother of John, with the sword. 
    3: And seeing that it pleased the Jews, he proceeded to take up Peter also. Now it was in the days of the Azymes. 
    4: And when he had apprehended him, he cast him into prison, delivering him to four files of soldiers to be kept, intending, after the pasch, to bring him forth to the people. 
    5: Peter therefore was kept in prison. But prayer was made without ceasing by the church unto God for him.
    6: And when Herod would have brought him forth, the same night Peter was sleeping between two soldiers, bound with two chains: and the keepers before the door kept the prison. 
    7: And behold an angel of the Lord stood by him: and a light shined in the room: and he striking Peter on the side, raised him up, saying: Arise quickly. And the chains fell off from his hands. 
    8: And the angel said to him: Gird thyself, and put on thy sandals. And he did so. And he said to him: Cast thy garment about thee, and follow me. 
    9: And going out, he followed him, and he knew not that it was true which was done by the angel: but thought he saw a vision. 
    10: And passing through the first and the second ward, they came to the iron gate that leadeth to the city, which of itself opened to them. And going out, they passed on through one street: and immediately the angel departed from him.
    11: And Peter coming to himself, said: Now I know in very deed, that the Lord hath sent his angel, and hath delivered me out of the hand of Herod, and from all the expectation of the people of the Jews. 
    12: And considering, he came to the house of Mary the mother of John, who was surnamed Mark, where many were gathered together and praying. 
    13: And when he knocked at the door of the gate, a damsel came to hearken, whose name was Rhode. 
    14: And as soon as she knew Peter's voice, she opened not the gate for joy, but running in she told that Peter stood before the gate. 
    15: But they said to her: Thou art mad. But she affirmed that it was so. Then said they: It is his angel.
    16: But Peter continued knocking. And when they had opened, they saw him, and were astonished. 
    17: But he beckoning to them with his hand to hold their peace, told how the Lord had brought him out of prison, and he said: Tell these things to James, and to the brethren. And going out, he went into another place. 
    18: Now when day was come, there was no small stir among the soldiers, what was become of Peter. 
    19: And when Herod had sought for him, and found him not; having examined the keepers, he commanded they should be put to death; and going down from Judea to Caesarea, he abode there. 
    20: And he was angry with the Tyrians and the Sidonians. But they with one accord came to him, and having gained Blastus, who was the king's chamberlain, they desired peace, because their countries were nourished by him.
    21: And upon a day appointed, Herod being arrayed in kingly apparel, sat in the judgment seat, and made an oration to them. 
    22: And the people made acclamation, saying: It is the voice of a god, and not of a man. 
    23: And forthwith an angel of the Lord struck him, because he had not given the honour to God: and being eaten up by worms, he gave up the ghost. 
    24: But the word of the Lord increased and multiplied. 
    25: And Barnabas and Saul returned from Jerusalem, having fulfilled their ministry, taking with them John, who was surnamed Mark.

End of day 309.