Day 157:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['53', '54', '55', '56']:

  Chapter 53.

    1: Unto the end, In verses, understanding for David. 
    2: When the men of Ziph had come and said to Saul: Is not David hidden with us? 
    3: Save me, O God, by thy name, and judge me in thy strength. 
    4: O God, hear my prayer: give ear to the words of my mouth. 
    5: For strangers have risen up against me; and the mighty have sought after my soul: and they have not set God before their eyes.
    6: For behold God is my helper: and the Lord is the protector of my soul. 
    7: Turn back the evils upon my enemies; and cut them off in thy truth. 
    8: I will freely sacrifice to thee, and will give praise, O God, to thy name: because it is good: 
    9: For thou hast delivered me out of all trouble: and my eye hath looked down upon my enemies.

  Chapter 54.

    1: Unto the end, in verses, understanding for David. 
    2: Hear, O God, my prayer, and despise not my supplication: 
    3: Be attentive to me and hear me. I am grieved in my exercise; and am troubled, 
    4: At the voice of the enemy, and at the tribulation of the sinner. For they have cast iniquities upon me: and in wrath they were troublesome to me. 
    5: My heart is troubled within me: and the fear of death is fallen upon me.
    6: Fear and trembling are come upon me: and darkness hath covered me. 
    7: And I said: Who will give me wings like a dove, and I will fly and be at rest? 
    8: Lo, I have gone far off flying away; and I abode in the wilderness. 
    9: I waited for him that hath saved me from pusillanimity of spirit, and a storm. 
    10: Cast down, O Lord, and divide their tongues; for I have seen iniquity and contradiction in the city.
    11: Day and night shall iniquity surround it upon its walls: and in the midst thereof are labour, 
    12: And injustice. And usury and deceit have not departed from its streets. 
    13: For if my enemy had reviled me, I would verily have borne with it. And if he that hated me had spoken great things against me, I would perhaps have hidden myself from him. 
    14: But thou a man of one mind, my guide, and my familiar, 
    15: Who didst take sweetmeats together with me: in the house of God we walked with consent.
    16: Let death come upon them, and let them go down alive into hell. For there is wickedness in their dwellings: in the midst of them. 
    17: But I have cried to God: and the Lord will save me. 
    18: Evening and morning, and at noon I will speak and declare: and he shall hear my voice. 
    19: He shall redeem my soul in peace from them that draw near to me: for among many they were with me. 
    20: God shall hear, and the Eternal shall humble them. For there is no change with them, and they have not feared God:
    21: He hath stretched forth his hand to repay. They have defiled his covenant, 
    22: They are divided by the wrath Of his countenance, and his heart hath drawn near. His words are smoother than oil, and the same are darts. 
    23: Cast thy care upon the Lord, and he shall sustain thee: he shall not suffer the just to waver for ever. 
    24: But thou, O God, shalt bring them down into the pit of destruction. Bloody and deceitful men shall not live out half their days; but I will trust in thee, O Lord.

  Chapter 55.

    1: Unto the end, for a people that is removed at a distance from the sanctuary for David, for an inscription of a title (or pillar) when the Philistines held him in Geth. 
    2: Have mercy on me, O God, for man hath trodden me under foot; all the day long he hath afflicted me fighting against me. 
    3: My enemies have trodden on me all the day long; for they are many that make war against me. 
    4: From the height of the day I shall fear: but I will trust in thee. 
    5: In God I will praise my words, in God I have put my trust: I will not fear what flesh can do against me.
    6: All the day long they detested my words: all their thoughts were against me unto evil. 
    7: They will dwell and hide themselves: they will watch my heel. As they have waited for my soul, 
    8: For nothing shalt thou save them: in thy anger thou shalt break the people in pieces, O God, 
    9: I have declared to thee my life: thou hast set my tears in thy sight, As also in thy promise. 
    10: Then shall my enemies be turned back. In what day soever I shall call upon thee, behold I know thou art my God.
    11: In God will I praise the word, in the Lord will I praise his speech. In God have I hoped, I will not fear what man can do to me. 
    12: In me, O God, are vows to thee, which I will pay, praises to thee: 
    13: Because thou hast delivered my soul from death, my feet from falling: that I may please in the sight of God, in the light of the living.

  Chapter 56.

    1: Unto the end, destroy not, for David, for an inscription of a title, when he fled from Saul into the cave. 
    2: Kings 24] 
    3: Have mercy on me, O God, have mercy on me: for my soul trusteth in thee. And in the shadow of thy wings will I hope, until iniquity pass away. 
    4: I will cry to God the most High; to God who hath done good to me. 
    5: He hath sent from heaven and delivered me: he hath made them a reproach that trod upon me. God hath sent his mercy and his truth, 
    6: And he hath delivered my soul from the midst of the young lions. I slept troubled. The sons of men, whose teeth are weapons and arrows, and their tongue a sharp sword.
    7: Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens, and thy glory above all the earth. 
    8: They prepared a snare for my feet; and they bowed down my soul. They dug a pit before my face, and they are fallen into it. 
    9: My heart is ready, O God, my heart is ready: I will Sing, and rehearse a psalm. 
    10: Arise, O my glory, arise psaltery and harp: I will arise early. 
    11: I will give praise to thee, O Lord, among the people: I will sing a psalm to thee among the nations.
    12: For thy mercy is magnified even to the heavens: and thy truth unto the clouds. 
    13: Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens: and thy glory above all the earth.

End of day 157.