Day 290:

Reading Matthew, chapters ['25', '26', '27', '28']:

  Chapter 25.

    1: Then shall the kingdom of heaven be like to ten virgins, who taking their lamps went out to meet the bridegroom and the bride. 
    2: And five of them were foolish, and five wise. 
    3: But the five foolish, having taken their lamps, did not take oil with them: 
    4: But the wise took oil in their vessels with the lamps. 
    5: And the bridegroom tarrying, they all slumbered and slept.
    6: And at midnight there was a cry made: Behold the bridegroom cometh, go ye forth to meet him. 
    7: Then all those virgins arose and trimmed their lamps. 
    8: And the foolish said to the wise: Give us of your oil, for our lamps are gone out. 
    9: The wise answered, saying: Lest perhaps there be not enough for us and for you, go ye rather to them that sell, and buy for yourselves. 
    10: Now whilst they went to buy, the bridegroom came: and they that were ready, went in with him to the marriage, and the door was shut.
    11: But at last come also the other virgins, saying: Lord, Lord, open to us. 
    12: But he answering said: Amen I say to you, I know you not. 
    13: Watch ye therefore, because you know not the day nor the hour. 
    14: For even as a man going into a far country, called his servants, and delivered to them his goods; 
    15: And to one he gave five talents, and to another two, and to another one, to every one according to his proper ability: and immediately he took his journey.
    16: And he that had received the five talents, went his way, and traded with the same, and gained other five. 
    17: And in like manner he that had received the two, gained other two. 
    18: But he that had received the one, going his way digged into the earth, and hid his lord's money. 
    19: But after a long time the lord of those servants came, and reckoned with them. 
    20: And he that had received the five talents coming, brought other five talents, saying: Lord, thou didst deliver to me five talents, behold I have gained other five over and above.
    21: His lord said to him: Well done, good and faithful servant, because thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will place thee over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord. 
    22: And he also that had received the two talents came and said: Lord, thou deliveredst two talents to me: behold I have gained other two. 
    23: His lord said to him: Well done, good and faithful servant: because thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will place thee over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord. 
    24: But he that had received the one talent, came and said: Lord, I know that thou art a hard man; thou reapest where thou hast not sown, and gatherest where thou hast not strewed. 
    25: And being afraid I went and hid thy talent in the earth: behold here thou hast that which is thine.
    26: And his lord answering, said to him: Wicked and slothful servant, thou knewest that I reap where I sow not, and gather where I have not strewed: 
    27: Thou oughtest therefore to have committed my money to the bankers, and at my coming I should have received my own with usury. 
    28: Take ye away therefore the talent from him, and give it to him that hath ten talents. 
    29: For to every one that hath shall be given, and he shall abound: but from him that hath not, that also which he seemeth to have shall be taken away. 
    30: And the unprofitable servant cast ye out into the exterior darkness. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
    31: And when the Son of man shall come in his majesty, and all the angels with him, then shall he sit upon the seat of his majesty. 
    32: And all nations shall be gathered together before him, and he shall separate them one from another, as the shepherd separateth the sheep from the goats: 
    33: And he shall set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on his left. 
    34: Then shall the king say to them that shall be on his right hand: Come, ye blessed of my Father, possess you the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. 
    35: For I was hungry, and you gave me to eat; I was thirsty, and you gave me to drink; I was a stranger, and you took me in:
    36: Naked, and you covered me: sick, and you visited me: I was in prison, and you came to me. 
    37: Then shall the just answer him, saying: Lord, when did we see thee hungry, and fed thee; thirsty, and gave thee drink? 
    38: And when did we see thee a stranger, and took thee in? or naked, and covered thee? 
    39: Or when did we see thee sick or in prison, and came to thee? 
    40: And the king answering, shall say to them: Amen I say to you, as long as you did it to one of these my least brethren, you did it to me.
    41: Then he shall say to them also that shall be on his left hand: Depart from me, you cursed, into everlasting fire which was prepared for the devil and his angels. 
    42: For I was hungry, and you gave me not to eat: I was thirsty, and you gave me not to drink. 
    43: I was a stranger, and you took me not in: naked, and you covered me not: sick and in prison, and you did not visit me. 
    44: Then they also shall answer him, saying: Lord, when did we see thee hungry, or thirsty, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and did not minister to thee? 
    45: Then he shall answer them, saying: Amen I say to you, as long as you did it not to one of these least, neither did you do it to me.
    46: And these shall go into everlasting punishment: but the just, into life everlasting.

  Chapter 26.

    1: And it came to pass, when Jesus had ended all these words, he said to his disciples: 
    2: You know that after two days shall be the pasch, and the son of man shall be delivered up to be crucified: 
    3: Then were gathered together the chief priests and ancients of the people into the court of the high priest, who was called Caiphas: 
    4: And they consulted together, that by subtilty they might apprehend Jesus, and put him to death. 
    5: But they said: Not on the festival day, lest perhaps there should be a tumult among the people.
    6: And when Jesus was in Bethania, in the house of Simon the leper, 
    7: There came to him a woman having an alabaster box of precious ointment, and poured it on his head as he was at table. 
    8: And the disciples seeing it, had indignation, saying: To what purpose is this waste? 
    9: For this might have been sold for much, and given to the poor. 
    10: And Jesus knowing it, said to them: Why do you trouble this woman? for she hath wrought a good work upon me.
    11: For the poor you have always with you: but me you have not always. 
    12: For she in pouring this ointment upon my body, hath done it for my burial. 
    13: Amen I say to you, wheresoever this gospel shall be preached in the whole world, that also which she hath done, shall be told for a memory of her. 
    14: Then went one of the twelve, who was called Judas Iscariot, to the chief priests, 
    15: And said to them: What will you give me, and I will deliver him unto you? But they appointed him thirty pieces of silver.
    16: And from thenceforth he sought opportunity to betray him. 
    17: And on the first day of the Azymes, the disciples came to Jesus, saying: Where wilt thou that we prepare for thee to eat the pasch? 
    18: But Jesus said: Go ye into the city to a certain man, and say to him: the master saith, My time is near at hand, with thee I make the pasch with my disciples. 
    19: And the disciples did as Jesus appointed to them, and they prepared the pasch. 
    20: But when it was evening, he sat down with his twelve disciples.
    21: And whilst they were eating, he said: Amen I say to you, that one of you is about to betray me. 
    22: And they being very much troubled, began every one to say: Is it I, Lord? 
    23: But he answering, said: He that dippeth his hand with me in the dish, he shall betray me. 
    24: The Son of man indeed goeth, as it is written of him: but woe to that man by whom the Son of man shall be betrayed: it were better for him, if that man had not been born. 
    25: And Judas that betrayed him, answering, said: Is it I, Rabbi? He saith to him: Thou hast said it.
    26: And whilst they were at supper, Jesus took bread, and blessed, and broke: and gave to his disciples, and said: Take ye, and eat. This is my body. 
    27: And taking the chalice, he gave thanks, and gave to them, saying: Drink ye all of this. 
    28: For this is my blood of the new testament, which shall be shed for many unto remission of sins. 
    29: And I say to you, I will not drink from henceforth of this fruit of the vine, until that day when I shall drink it with you new in the kingdom of my Father. 
    30: And a hymn being said, they went out unto mount Olivet.
    31: Then Jesus said to them: All you shall be scandalized in me this night. For it is written: I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock shall be dispersed. 
    32: But after I shall be risen again, I will go before you into Galilee. 
    33: And Peter answering, said to him: Although all shall be scandalized in thee, I will never be scandalized. 
    34: Jesus said to him: Amen I say to thee, that in this night before the cock crow, thou wilt deny me thrice. 
    35: Peter saith to him: Yea, though I should die with thee, I will not deny thee. And in like manner said all the disciples.
    36: Then Jesus came with them into a country place which is called Gethsemani; and he said to his disciples: Sit you here, till I go yonder and pray. 
    37: And taking with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, he began to grow sorrowful and to be sad. 
    38: Then he saith to them: My soul is sorrowful even unto death: stay you here, and watch with me. 
    39: And going a little further, he fell upon his face, praying, and saying: My Father, if it be possible, let this chalice pass from me. Nevertheless not as I will, but as thou wilt. 
    40: And he cometh to his disciples, and findeth them asleep, and he saith to Peter: What? Could you not watch one hour with me?
    41: Watch ye, and pray that ye enter not into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh weak. 
    42: Again the second time, he went and prayed, saying: My Father, if this chalice may not pass away, but I must drink it, thy will be done. 
    43: And he cometh again and findeth them sleeping: for their eyes were heavy. 
    44: And leaving them, he went again: and he prayed the third time, saying the selfsame word. 
    45: Then he cometh to his disciples, and saith to them: Sleep ye now and take your rest; behold the hour is at hand, and the Son of man shall be betrayed into the hands of sinners.
    46: Rise, let us go: behold he is at hand that will betray me. 
    47: As he yet spoke, behold Judas, one of the twelve, came, and with him a great multitude with swords and clubs, sent from the chief priests and the ancients of the people. 
    48: And he that betrayed him, gave them a sign, saying: Whomsoever I shall kiss, that is he, hold him fast. 
    49: And forthwith coming to Jesus, he said: Hail, Rabbi. And he kissed him. 
    50: And Jesus said to him: Friend, whereto art thou come? Then they came up, and laid hands on Jesus, and held him.
    51: And behold one of them that were with Jesus, stretching forth his hand, drew out his sword: and striking the servant of the high priest, cut off his ear. 
    52: Then Jesus saith to him: Put up again thy sword into its place: for all that take the sword shall perish with the sword. 
    53: Thinkest thou that I cannot ask my Father, and he will give me presently more than twelve legions of angels? 
    54: How then shall the scriptures be fulfilled, that so it must be done? 
    55: In that same hour Jesus said to the multitudes: You are come out as it were to a robber with swords and clubs to apprehend me. I sat daily with you, teaching in the temple, and you laid not hands on me.
    56: Now all this was done, that the scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled. Then the disciples all leaving him, fled. 
    57: But they holding Jesus led him to Caiphas the high priest, where the scribes and the ancients were assembled. 
    58: And Peter followed him afar off, even to the court of the high priest. And going in, he sat with the servants, that he might see the end. 
    59: And the chief priests and the whole council sought false witness against Jesus, that they might put him to death: 
    60: And they found not, whereas many false witnesses had come in. And last of all there came two false witnesses:
    61: And they said: This man said, I am able to destroy the temple of God, and after three days to rebuild it. 
    62: And the high priest rising up, said to him: Answerest thou nothing to the things which these witness against thee? 
    63: But Jesus held his peace. And the high priest said to him: I adjure thee by the living God, that thou tell us if thou be the Christ the Son of God. 
    64: Jesus saith to him: Thou hast said it. Nevertheless I say to you, hereafter you shall see the Son of man sitting on the right hand of the power of God, and coming in the clouds of heaven. 
    65: Then the high priests rent his garments, saying: He hath blasphemed; what further need have we of witnesses? Behold, now you have heard the blasphemy:
    66: What think you? But they answering, said: He is guilty of death. 
    67: Then did they spit in his face, and buffeted him: and others struck his face with the palms of their hands, 
    68: Saying: Prophesy unto us, O Christ, who is he that struck thee? 
    69: But Peter sat without in the court: and there came to him a servant maid, saying: Thou also wast with Jesus the Galilean. 
    70: But he denied before them all, saying: I know not what thou sayest.
    71: And as he went out of the gate, another maid saw him, and she saith to them that were there: This man also was with Jesus of Nazareth. 
    72: And again he denied with an oath, I know not the man. 
    73: And after a little while they came that stood by, and said to Peter: Surely thou also art one of them; for even thy speech doth discover thee. 
    74: Then he began to curse and to swear that he knew not the man. And immediately the cock crew. 
    75: And Peter remembered the word of Jesus which he had said: Before the cock crow, thou wilt deny me thrice. And going forth, he wept bitterly.

  Chapter 27.

    1: And when morning was come, all the chief priests and ancients of the people took counsel against Jesus, that they might put him to death. 
    2: And they brought him bound, and delivered him to Pontius Pilate the governor. 
    3: Then Judas, who betrayed him, seeing that he was condemned, repenting himself, brought back the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and ancients, 
    4: Saying: I have sinned in betraying innocent blood. But they said: What is that to us? look thou to it. 
    5: And casting down the pieces of silver in the temple, he departed: and went and hanged himself with an halter.
    6: But the chief priests having taken the pieces of silver, said: It is not lawful to put them into the corbona, because it is the price of blood. 
    7: And after they had consulted together, they bought with them the potter's field, to be a burying place for strangers. 
    8: For this cause the field was called Haceldama, that is, The field of blood, even to this day. 
    9: Then was fulfilled that which was spoken by Jeremias the prophet, saying: And they took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of him that was prized, whom they prized of the children of Israel. 
    10: And they gave them unto the potter's field, as the Lord appointed to me.
    11: And Jesus stood before the governor, and the governor asked him, saying: Art thou the king of the Jews? Jesus saith to him: Thou sayest it. 
    12: And when he was accused by the chief priests and ancients, he answered nothing. 
    13: Then Pilate saith to him: Dost not thou hear how great testimonies they allege against thee? 
    14: And he answered him to never a word; so that the governor wondered exceedingly. 
    15: Now upon the solemn day the governor was accustomed to release to the people one prisoner, whom they would.
    16: And he had then a notorious prisoner, that was called Barabbas. 
    17: They therefore being gathered together, Pilate said: Whom will you that I release to you, Barabbas, or Jesus that is called Christ? 
    18: For he knew that for envy they had delivered him. 
    19: And as he was sitting in the place of judgment, his wife sent to him, saying: Have thou nothing to do with that just man; for I have suffered many things this day in a dream because of him. 
    20: But the chief priests and ancients persuaded the people, that they should ask for Barabbas, and take Jesus away.
    21: And the governor answering, said to them: Whether will you of the two to be released unto you? But they said, Barabbas. 
    22: Pilate saith to them: What shall I do then with Jesus that is called Christ? They say all: Let him be crucified. 
    23: The governor said to them: Why, what evil hath he done? But they cried out the more, saying: Let him be crucified. 
    24: And Pilate seeing that he prevailed nothing, but that rather a tumult was made; taking water washed his hands before the people, saying: I am innocent of the blood of this just man; look you to it. 
    25: And the whole people answering, said: His blood be upon us and our children.
    26: Then he released to them Barabbas, and having scourged Jesus, delivered him unto them to be crucified. 
    27: Then the soldiers of the governor taking Jesus into the hall, gathered together unto him the whole band; 
    28: And stripping him, they put a scarlet cloak about him. 
    29: And platting a crown of thorns, they put it upon his head, and a reed in his right hand. And bowing the knee before him, they mocked him, saying: Hail, king of the Jews. 
    30: And spitting upon him, they took the reed, and struck his head.
    31: And after they had mocked him, they took off the cloak from him, and put on him his own garments, and led him away to crucify him. 
    32: And going out, they found a man of Cyrene, named Simon: him they forced to take up his cross. 
    33: And they came to the place that is called Golgotha, which is the place of Calvary. 
    34: And they gave him wine to drink mingled with gall. And when he had tasted, he would not drink. 
    35: And after they had crucified him, they divided his garments, casting lots; that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophet, saying: They divided my garments among them; and upon my vesture they cast lots.
    36: And they sat and watched him. 
    37: And they put over his head his cause written: THIS IS JESUS THE KING OF THE JEWS. 
    38: Then were crucified with him two thieves: one on the right hand, and one on the left. 
    39: And they that passed by, blasphemed him, wagging their heads, 
    40: And saying: Vah, thou that destroyest the temple of God, and in three days dost rebuild it: save thy own self: if thou be the Son of God, come down from the cross.
    41: In like manner also the chief priests, with the scribes and ancients, mocking, said: 
    42: He saved others; himself he cannot save. If he be the king of Israel, let him now come down from the cross, and we will believe him. 
    43: He trusted in God; let him now deliver him if he will have him; for he said: I am the Son of God. 
    44: And the selfsame thing the thieves also, that were crucified with him, reproached him with. 
    45: Now from the sixth hour there was darkness over the whole earth, until the ninth hour.
    46: And about the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying: Eli, Eli, lamma sabacthani? that is, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? 
    47: And some that stood there and heard, said: This man calleth Elias. 
    48: And immediately one of them running took a sponge, and filled it with vinegar; and put it on a reed, and gave him to drink. 
    49: And the others said: Let be, let us see whether Elias will come to deliver him. 
    50: And Jesus again crying with a loud voice, yielded up the ghost.
    51: And behold the veil of the temple was rent in two from the top even to the bottom, and the earth quaked, and the rocks were rent. 
    52: And the graves were opened: and many bodies of the saints that had slept arose, 
    53: And coming out of the tombs after his resurrection, came into the holy city, and appeared to many. 
    54: Now the centurion and they that were with him watching Jesus, having seen the earthquake, and the things that were done, were sore afraid, saying: Indeed this was the Son of God. 
    55: And there were there many women afar off, who had followed Jesus from Galilee, ministering unto him:
    56: Among whom was Mary Magdalen, and Mary the mother of James and Joseph, and the mother of the sons of Zebedee. 
    57: And when it was evening, there came a certain rich man of Arimathea, named Joseph, who also himself was a disciple of Jesus. 
    58: He went to Pilate, and asked the body of Jesus. Then Pilate commanded that the body should be delivered. 
    59: And Joseph taking the body, wrapped it up in a clean linen cloth. 
    60: And laid it in his own new monument, which he had hewed out in a rock. And he rolled a great stone to the door of the monument, and went his way.
    61: And there was there Mary Magdalen, and the other Mary sitting over against the sepulchre. 
    62: And the next day, which followed the day of preparation, the chief priests and the Pharisees came together to Pilate, 
    63: Saying: Sir, we have remembered, that that seducer said, while he was yet alive: After three days I will rise again. 
    64: Command therefore the sepulchre to be guarded until the third day: lest perhaps his disciples come and steal him away, and say to the people: He is risen from the dead; and the last error shall be worse than the first. 
    65: Pilate saith to them: You have a guard; go, guard it as you know.
    66: And they departing, made the sepulchre sure, sealing the stone, and setting guards.

  Chapter 28.

    1: And in the end of the sabbath, when it began to dawn towards the first day of the week, came Mary Magdalen and the other Mary, to see the sepulchre. 
    2: And behold there was a great earthquake. For an angel of the Lord descended from heaven, and coming, rolled back the stone, and sat upon it. 
    3: And his countenance was as lightning, and his raiment as snow. 
    4: And for fear of him, the guards were struck with terror, and became as dead men. 
    5: And the angel answering, said to the women: Fear not you; for I know that you seek Jesus who was crucified.
    6: He is not here, for he is risen, as he said. Come, and see the place where the Lord was laid. 
    7: And going quickly, tell ye his disciples that he is risen: and behold he will go before you into Galilee; there you shall see him. Lo, I have foretold it to you. 
    8: And they went out quickly from the sepulchre with fear and great joy, running to tell his disciples. 
    9: And behold Jesus met them, saying: All hail. But they came up and took hold of his feet, and adored him. 
    10: Then Jesus said to them: Fear not. Go, tell my brethren that they go into Galilee, there they shall see me.
    11: Who when they were departed, behold some of the guards came into the city, and told the chief priests all things that had been done. 
    12: And they being assembled together with the ancients, taking counsel, gave a great sum of money to the soldiers, 
    13: Saying: Say you, His disciples came by night, and stole him away when we were asleep. 
    14: And if the governor shall hear this, we will persuade him, and secure you. 
    15: So they taking the money, did as they were taught: and this word was spread abroad among the Jews even unto this day.
    16: And the eleven disciples went into Galilee, unto the mountain where Jesus had appointed them. 
    17: And seeing him they adored: but some doubted. 
    18: And Jesus coming, spoke to them, saying: All power is given to me in heaven and in earth. 
    19: Going therefore, teach ye all nations; baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. 
    20: Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and behold I am with you all days, even to the consummation of the world.

End of day 290.