Day 259:

Reading Daniel, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: In the third year of the reign of Joakim king of Juda, Nabuchodonosor king of Babylon came to Jerusalem, and besieged it. 
    2: And the Lord delivered into his hands Joakim the king of Juda, and part of the vessels of the house of God: and he carried them away into the land of Sennaar, to the house of his god, and the vessels he brought into the treasure house of his god. 
    3: And the king spoke to Asphenez the master of the eunuchs, that he should bring in some of the children of Israel, and of the king's seed and of the princes, 
    4: Children in whom there was no blemish, well favoured, and skillful in all wisdom, acute in knowledge, and instructed in science, and such as might stand in the king's palace, that he might teach them the learning, and the tongue of the Chaldeans. 
    5: And the king appointed them a daily provision, of his own meat, and of the wine of which he drank himself, that being nourished three years, afterwards they might stand before the king.
    6: Now there were among them of the children of Juda, Daniel, Ananias, Misael, and Azarias. 
    7: And the master of the eunuchs gave them names: to Daniel, Baltassar: to Ananias, Sidrach: to Misael, Misach: and to Azarias, Abdenago. 
    8: But Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not be defiled with the king's table, nor with the wine which he drank: and he requested the master of the eunuchs that he might not be defiled. 
    9: And God gave to Daniel grace and mercy in the sight of the prince of the eunuchs. 
    10: And the prince of the eunuchs said to Daniel: I fear my lord the king, who hath appointed you meat and drink: who if he should see your faces leaner than those of the other youths your equals, you shall endanger my head to the king.
    11: And Daniel said to Malasar, whom the prince of the eunuchs had appointed over Daniel, Ananias, Misael, and Azarias: 
    12: Try, I beseech thee, thy servants for ten days, and let pulse be given us to eat, and water to drink: 
    13: And look upon our faces, and the faces of the children that eat of the king's meat: and as thou shalt see, deal with thy servants. 
    14: And when he had heard these words, he tried them for ten days. 
    15: And after ten days their faces appeared fairer and fatter than all the children that ate of the king's meat.
    16: So Malasar took their portions, and the wine that they should drink: and he gave them pulse. 
    17: And to these children God gave knowledge, and understanding in every book, and wisdom: but to Daniel the understanding also of all visions and dreams. 
    18: And when the days were ended, after which the king had ordered they should be brought in: the prince of the eunuchs brought them in before Nabuchodonosor. 
    19: And when the king had spoken to them, there were not found among them all such as Daniel, Ananias, Misael, and Azarias: and they stood in the king's presence. 
    20: And in all matters of wisdom and understanding, that the king inquired of them, he found them ten times better than all the diviners, and wise men, that were in all his kingdom.
    21: And Daniel continued even to the first year of king Cyrus.

  Chapter 2.

    1: In the second year of the reign of Nabuchodonosor, Nabuchodonosor had a dream, and his spirit was terrified, and his dream went out of his mind. 
    2: Then the king commanded to call together the diviners and the wise men, and the magicians, and the Chaldeans: to declare to the king his dreams: so they came and stood before the king. 
    3: And the king said to them: I saw a dream: and being troubled in mind I know not what I saw. 
    4: And the Chaldeans answered the king in Syriac: O king, live for ever: tell to thy servants thy dream, and we will declare the interpretation thereof. 
    5: And the king answering said to the Chaldeans: The thing is gone out of my mind: unless you tell me the dream, and the meaning thereof, you shall be put to death, and your houses shall be confiscated.
    6: But if you tell the dream, and the meaning of it, you shall receive of me rewards, and gifts, and great honour: therefore tell me the dream, and the interpretation thereof. 
    7: They answered again and said: Let the king tell his servants the dream, and we will declare the interpretation of it. 
    8: The king answered, and said: I know for certain that you seek to gain time, since you know that the thing is gone from me. 
    9: If therefore you tell me not the dream, there is one sentence concerning you, that you have also framed a lying interpretation, and full of deceit, to speak before me till the time pass away. Tell me therefore the dream, that I may know that you also give a true interpretation thereof. 
    10: Then the Chaldeans answered before the king, and said: There is no man upon earth, that can accomplish thy word, O king, neither doth any king, though great and mighty, ask such a thing of any diviner, or wise man, or Chaldean.
    11: For the thing that thou askest, O king, is difficult; nor can any one be found that can shew it before the king, except the gods, whose conversation is not with men. 
    12: Upon hearing this, the king in fury, and in great wrath, commanded that all the wise men of Babylon should be put to death. 
    13: And the decree being gone forth, the wise men were slain: and Daniel and his companions were sought for, to be put to death. 
    14: Then Daniel inquired concerning the law and the sentence, of Arioch the general of the king's army, who was gone forth to kill the wise men of Babylon. 
    15: And he asked him that had received the orders of the king, why so cruel a sentence was gone forth from the face of the king. And when Arioch had told the matter to Daniel,
    16: Daniel went in and desired of the king, that he would give him time to resolve the question and declare it to the king. 
    17: And he went into his house, and told the matter to Ananias, and Misael, and Azarias his companions: 
    18: To the end that they should ask mercy at the face of the God of heaven concerning this secret, and that Daniel and his companions might not perish with the rest of the wise men of Babylon. 
    19: Then was the mystery revealed to Daniel by a vision in the night: and Daniel blessed the God of heaven, 
    20: And speaking he said: Blessed be the name of the Lord from eternity and for evermore: for wisdom and fortitude are his.
    21: And he changeth times and ages: taketh away kingdoms and establisheth them, giveth wisdom to the wise, and knowledge to them that have understanding. 
    22: He revealeth deep and hidden things, and knoweth what is in darkness: and light is with him. 
    23: To thee, O God of our fathers, I give thanks, and I praise thee: because thou hast given me wisdom and strength: and now thou hast shewn me what we desired of thee, for thou hast made known to us, the king's discourse. 
    24: After this Daniel went in to Arioch, to whom the king had given orders to destroy the wise men of Babylon, and he spoke thus to him: Destroy not the wise men of Babylon: bring me in before the king, and I will tell the solution to the king. 
    25: Then Arioch in haste brought in Daniel to the king, and said to him: I have found a man of the children of the captivity of Juda, that will resolve the question to the king.
    26: The king answered, and said to Daniel, whose name was Baltassar: Thinkest thou indeed that thou canst tell me the dream that I saw, and the interpretation thereof? 
    27: And Daniel made answer before the king, and said: The secret that the king desireth to know, none of the wise men, or the philosophers, or the diviners, or the soothsayers can declare to the king. 
    28: But there is a God in heaven that revealeth mysteries, who hath shewn to thee, O king Nabuchodonosor, what is to come to pass in the latter times. Thy dream, and the visions of thy head upon thy bed, are these: 
    29: Thou, O king, didst begin to think in thy bed, what should come to pass hereafter: and he that revealeth mysteries shewed thee what shall come to pass. 
    30: To me also this secret is revealed, not by any wisdom that I have more than all men alive: but that the interpretation might be made manifest to the king, and thou mightest know the thoughts of thy mind.
    31: Thou, O king, sawest, and behold there was as it were a great statue: this statue, which was great and high, tall of stature, stood before thee, and the look thereof was terrible. 
    32: The head of this statue was of fine gold, but the breast and the arms of silver, and the belly and the thighs of brass: 
    33: And the legs of iron, the feet part of iron and part of clay. 
    34: Thus thou sawest, till a stone was cut out of a mountain without hands: and it struck the statue upon the feet thereof that were of iron and of clay, and broke them in pieces. 
    35: Then was the iron, the clay, the brass, the silver, and the gold broken to pieces together, and became like the chaff of a summer's threshingfloor, and they were carried away by the wind: and there was no place found for them: but the stone that struck the statue, became a great mountain, and filled the whole earth.
    36: This is the dream: we will also tell the interpretation thereof before thee, O king. 
    37: Thou art a king of kings: and the God of heaven hath given thee a kingdom, and strength, and power, and glory: 
    38: And all places wherein the children of men, and the beasts of the field do dwell: he hath also given the birds of the air into thy hand, and hath put all things under thy power: thou therefore art the head of gold. 
    39: And after thee shall rise up another kingdom, inferior to thee, of silver: and another third kingdom of brass, which shall rule over all the world. 
    40: And the fourth kingdom shall be as iron. As iron breaketh into pieces, and subdueth all things, so shall that break and destroy all these.
    41: And whereas thou sawest the feet, and the toes, part of potter's clay, and part of iron: the kingdom shall be divided, but yet it shall take its origin from the iron, according as thou sawest the iron mixed with the miry clay. 
    42: And as the toes of the feet were part of iron, and part of clay, the kingdom shall be partly strong, and partly broken. 
    43: And whereas thou sawest the iron mixed with miry clay, they shall be mingled indeed together with the seed of man, but they shall not stick fast one to another, as iron cannot be mixed with clay. 
    44: But in the days of those kingdoms the God of heaven will set up a kingdom that shall never be destroyed, and his kingdom shall not be delivered up to another people, and it shall break in pieces, and shall consume all these kingdoms, and itself shall stand for ever. 
    45: According as thou sawest that the stone was cut out of the mountain without hands, and broke in pieces, the clay, and the iron, and the brass, and the silver, and the gold, the great God hath shewn the king what shall come to pass hereafter, and the dream is true, and the interpretation thereof is faithful.
    46: Then king Nabuchodonosor fell on his face, and worshipped Daniel, and commanded that they should offer in sacrifice to him victims and incense. 
    47: And the king spoke to Daniel, and said: Verily your God is the God of gods, and Lord of kings, and a revealer of hidden things: seeing thou couldst discover this secret. 
    48: Then the king advanced Daniel to a high station, and gave him many and great gifts: and he made him governor over all the provinces of Babylon, and chief of the magistrates over all the wise men of Babylon. 
    49: And Daniel requested of the king, and he appointed Sidrach, Misach, and Abdenago over the works of the province of Babylon: but Daniel himself was in the king's palace.

  Chapter 3.

    1: King Nabuchodonosor made a statue of gold, of sixty cubits high, and six cubits broad, and he set it up in the plain of Dura of the province of Babylon. 
    2: Then Nabuchodonosor the king sent to call together the nobles, the magistrates, and the judges, the captains, the rulers, and governors, and all the chief men of the provinces, to come to the dedication of the statue which king Nabuchodonosor had set up. 
    3: Then the nobles, the magistrates, and the judges, the captains, and rulers, and the great men that were placed in authority, and all the princes of the provinces, were gathered together to come to the dedication of the statue, which king Nabuchodonosor had set up. And they stood before the statue which king Nabuchodonosor had set up. 
    4: Then a herald cried with a strong voice: To you it is commanded, O nations, tribes, and languages: 
    5: That in the hour that you shall hear the sound of the trumpet, and of the flute, and of the harp, of the sackbut, and of the psaltery, and of the symphony, and of all kind of music; ye fall down and adore the golden statue which king Nabuchodonosor hath set up.
    6: But if any man shall not fall down and adore, he shall the same hour be cast into a furnace of burning fire. 
    7: Upon this therefore, at the time when all the people heard the sound of the trumpet, the flute, and the harp, of the sackbut, and the psaltery, of the symphony, and of all kind of music: all the nations, tribes, and languages fell down and adored the golden statue which king Nabuchodonosor had set up. 
    8: And presently at that very time some Chaldeans came and accused the Jews, 
    9: And said to king Nabuchodonosor: O king, live for ever: 
    10: Thou, O king, hast made a decree that every man that shall hear the sound of the trumpet, the flute, and the harp, of the sackbut, and the psaltery, of the symphony, and of all kind of music, shall prostrate himself, and adore the golden statue:
    11: And that if any man shall not fall down and adore, he should be cast into a furnace of burning fire. 
    12: Now there are certain Jews whom thou hast set over the works of the province of Babylon, Sidrach, Misach, and Abdenago: these men, O king, have slighted thy decree: they worship not thy gods, nor do they adore the golden statue which thou hast set up. 
    13: Then Nabuchodonosor in fury, and in wrath, commanded that Sidrach, Misach, and Abdenago should be brought: who immediately were brought before the king. 
    14: And Nabuchodonosor the king spoke to them, and said: Is it true, O Sidrach, Misach, and Abdenago, that you do not worship my gods, nor adore the golden statue that I have set up? 
    15: Now therefore if you be ready at what hour soever you shall hear the sound of the trumpet, flute, harp, sackbut, and psaltery, and symphony, and of all kind of music, prostrate yourselves, and adore the statue which I have made: but if you do not adore, you shall be cast the same hour into the furnace of burning fire: and who is the God that shall deliver you out of my hand?
    16: Sidrach, Misach, and Abdenago answered and said to king Nabuchodonosor: We have no occasion to answer thee concerning this matter. 
    17: For behold our God, whom we worship, is able to save us from the furnace of burning fire, and to deliver us out of thy hands, O king. 
    18: But if he will not, be it known to thee, O king, that we will not worship thy gods, nor adore the golden statue which thou hast set up. 
    19: Then was Nabuchodonosor filled with fury: and the countenance of his face was changed against Sidrach, Misach, and Abdenago, and he commanded that the furnace should be heated seven times more than it had been accustomed to be heated. 
    20: And he commanded the strongest men that were in his army, to bind the feet of Sidrach, Misach, and Abdenago, and to cast them into the furnace of burning fire.
    21: And immediately these men were bound and were cast into the furnace of burning fire, with their coats, and their caps, and their shoes, and their garments. 
    22: For the king's commandment was urgent, and the furnace was heated exceedingly. And the flame of the fire slew those men that had cast in Sidrach, Misach, and Abdenago. 
    23: But these three men, that is, Sidrach, Misach, and Abdenago, fell down bound in the midst of the furnace of burning fire. 
    24: And they walked in the midst of the flame, praising God and blessing the Lord. 
    25: Then Azarias standing up prayed in this manner, and opening his mouth in the midst of the fire, he said:
    26: Blessed art thou, O Lord, the God of our fathers, and thy name is worthy of praise, and glorious for ever: 
    27: For thou art just in all that thou hast done to us, and all thy works are true, and thy ways right, and all thy judgments true. 
    28: For thou hast executed true judgments in all the things that thou hast brought upon us, and upon Jerusalem the holy city of our fathers: for according to truth and judgment, thou hast brought all these things upon us for our sins. 
    29: For we have sinned, and committed iniquity, departing from thee: and we have trespassed in all things: 
    30: And we have not hearkened to thy commandments, nor have we observed nor done as thou hadst commanded us, that it might go well with us.
    31: Wherefore all that thou hast brought upon us, and every thing that thou hast done to us, thou hast done in true judgment: 
    32: And thou hast delivered us into the hands of our enemies that are unjust, and most wicked, and prevaricators, and to a king unjust, and most wicked beyond all that are upon the earth. 
    33: And now we cannot open our mouths: we are become a shame and reproach to thy servants, and to them that worship thee. 
    34: Deliver us not up for ever, we beseech thee, for thy name's sake, and abolish not thy covenant. 
    35: And take not away thy mercy from us for the sake of Abraham thy beloved, and Isaac thy servant, and Israel thy holy one:
    36: To whom thou hast spoken, promising that thou wouldst multiply their seed as the stars of heaven, and as the sand that is on the sea shore. 
    37: For we, O Lord, are diminished more than any nation, and are brought low in all the earth this day for our sins. 
    38: Neither is there at this time prince, or leader, or prophet, or holocaust, or sacrifice, or oblation, or incense, or place of firstfruits before thee, 
    39: That we may find thy mercy: nevertheless in a contrite heart and humble spirit let us be accepted. 
    40: As in holocausts of rams, and bullocks, and as in thousands of fat lambs: so let our sacrifice be made in thy sight this day, that it may please thee: for there is no confusion to them that trust in thee.
    41: And now we follow thee with all our heart, and we fear thee, and seek thy face. 
    42: Put us not to confusion, but deal with us according to thy meekness, and according to the multitude of thy mercies. 
    43: And deliver us according to thy wonderful works, and give glory to thy name, O Lord: 
    44: And let all them be confounded that shew evils to thy servants, let them be confounded in all thy might, and let their strength be broken. 
    45: And let them know that thou art the Lord, the only God, and glorious over all the world.
    46: Now the king's servants that had cast them in, ceased not to heat the furnace with brimstone, and tow, and pitch, and dry sticks, 
    47: And the flame mounted up above the furnace nine and forty cubits: 
    48: And it broke forth, and burnt such of the Chaldeans as it found near the furnace. 
    49: But the angel of the Lord went down with Azarias and his companions into the furnace: and he drove the flame of the fire out of the furnace, 
    50: And made the midst of the furnace like the blowing of a wind bringing dew, and the fire touched them not at all, nor troubled them, nor did them any harm.
    51: Then these three as with one mouth praised, and glorified, and blessed God in the furnace, saying: 
    52: Blessed art thou, O Lord the God of our fathers: and worthy to be praised, and glorified, and exalted above all for ever: and blessed is the holy name of thy glory: and worthy to be praised, and exalted above all in all ages. 
    53: Blessed art thou in the holy temple of thy glory: and exceedingly to be praised, and exceeding glorious for ever. 
    54: Blessed art thou on the throne of thy kingdom, and exceedingly to be praised, and exalted above all for ever. 
    55: Blessed art thou, that beholdest the depths, and sittest upon the cherubims: and worthy to be praised and exalted above all for ever.
    56: Blessed art thou in the firmament of heaven: and worthy of praise, and glorious for ever. 
    57: All ye works of the Lord, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
    58: O ye angels of the Lord, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
    59: O ye heavens, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
    60: O all ye waters that are above the heavens, bless the Lord; praise and exalt him above all for ever.
    61: O all ye powers of the Lord, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
    62: O ye sun and moon, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
    63: O ye stars of heaven, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
    64: O every shower and dew, bless ye the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
    65: O all ye spirits of God, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever.
    66: O ye fire and heat, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
    67: O ye cold and heat, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
    68: O ye dews and hoar frosts, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
    69: O ye frost and cold, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
    70: O ye ice and snow, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever.
    71: O ye nights and days, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
    72: O ye light and darkness, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
    73: O ye lightnings and clouds, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
    74: O let the earth bless the Lord: let it praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
    75: O ye mountains and hills, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever.
    76: O all ye things that spring up in the earth, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
    77: O ye fountains, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
    78: O ye seas and rivers, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
    79: O ye whales, and all that move in the waters, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
    80: O all ye fowls of the air, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever.
    81: O all ye beasts and cattle, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
    82: O ye sons of men, bless the Lord, praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
    83: O let Israel bless the Lord: let them praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
    84: O ye priests of the Lord, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
    85: O ye servants of the Lord, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever.
    86: O ye spirits and souls of the just, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
    87: O ye holy and humble of heart, bless the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. 
    88: O Ananias, Azarias, and Misael, bless ye the Lord: praise and exalt him above all for ever. For he hath delivered us from hell, and saved us out of the hand of death, and delivered us out of the midst of the burning flame, and saved us out of the midst of the fire. 
    89: O give thanks to the Lord, because he is good: because his mercy endureth for ever and ever. 
    90: O all ye religious, bless the Lord the God of gods: praise him and give him thanks, because his mercy endureth for ever and ever.
    91: Then Nabuchodonosor the king was astonished, and rose up in haste, and said to his nobles: Did we not cast three men bound into the midst of the fire? They answered the king, and said: True, O king. 
    92: He answered, and said: Behold I see four men loose, and walking in the midst of the fire, and there is no hurt in them, and the form of the fourth is like the Son of God. 
    93: Then Nabuchodonosor came to the door of the burning fiery furnace, and said: Sidrach, Misach, and Abdenago, ye servants of the most high God, go ye forth, and come. And immediately Sidrach, Misach, and Abdenago went out from the midst of the fire. 
    94: And the nobles, and the magistrates, and the judges, and the great men of the king being gathered together, considered these men, that the fire had no power on their bodies, and that not a hair of their head had been singed, nor their garments altered, nor the smell of the fire had passed on them. 
    95: Then Nabuchodonosor breaking forth, said: Blessed be the God of them, to wit, of Sidrach, Misach, and Abdenago, who hath sent his angel, and delivered his servants that believed in him: and they changed the king's word, and delivered up their bodies that they might not serve, nor adore any god, except their own God.
    96: By me therefore this decree is made, that every people, tribe, and tongue, which shall speak blasphemy against the God of Sidrach, Misach, and Abdenago, shall be destroyed, and their houses laid waste: for there is no other God that can save in this manner. 
    97: Then the king promoted Sidrach, Misach, and Abdenago, in the province of Babylon. 
    98: Nabuchodonosor the king, to all peoples, nations, and tongues, that dwell in all the earth, peace be multiplied unto you. 
    99: The most high God hath wrought signs and wonders toward me. It hath seemed good to me therefore to publish 
    100: His signs, because they are great: and his wonders, because they are mighty: and his kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, I and his power to all generations.

  Chapter 4.

    1: I, Nabuchodonosor, was at rest in my house, and flourishing in my palace: 
    2: I saw a dream that affrighted me: and my thoughts in my bed, and the visions of my head troubled me. 
    3: Then I set forth a decree, that all the wise men of Babylon should be brought in before me, and that they should shew me the interpretation of the dream. 
    4: Then came in the diviners, the wise men, the Chaldeans, and the soothsayers, and I told the dream before them: but they did not shew me the interpretation thereof: 
    5: Till their colleague Daniel came in before me, whose name is Baltassar, according to the name of my god, who hath in him the spirit of the holy gods: and I told the dream before him.
    6: Baltassar, prince of the diviners, because I know that thou hast in thee the spirit of the holy gods, and that no secret is impossible to thee: tell me the visions of my dreams that I have seen, and the interpretation of them. 
    7: This was the vision of my head in my bed: I saw, and behold a tree in the midst of the earth, and the height thereof was exceeding great. 
    8: The tree was great, and strong: and the height thereof reached unto heaven: the sight thereof was even to the ends of all the earth. 
    9: Its leaves were most beautiful, and its fruit exceeding much: and in it was food for all: under it dwelt cattle, and beasts, and in the branches thereof the fowls of the air had their abode: and all flesh did eat of it. 
    10: I saw in the vision of my head upon my bed, and behold a watcher, and a holy one came down from heaven.
    11: He cried aloud, and said thus: Cut down the tree, and chop off the branches thereof: shake off its leaves, and scatter its fruits: let the beasts fly away that are under it, and the birds from its branches. 
    12: Nevertheless leave the stump of its roots in the earth, and let it be tied with a band of iron, and of brass, among the grass, that is without, and let it be wet with the dew of heaven, and let its portion be with the wild beasts in the grass of the earth. 
    13: Let his heart be changed from man's, and let a beast's heart be given him; and let seven times pass over him. 
    14: This is the decree by the sentence of the watchers, and the word and demand of the holy ones; till the living know that the most High ruleth in the kingdom of men; and he will give it to whomsoever it shall please him, and he will appoint the basest man over it. 
    15: I king Nabuchodonosor saw this dream: thou, therefore, O Baltassar, tell me quickly the interpretation: for all the wise men of my kingdom are not able to declare the meaning of it to me: but thou art able, because the spirit of the holy gods is in thee.
    16: Then Daniel, whose name was Baltassar, began silently to think within himself for about one hour: and his thoughts troubled him. But the king answering, said: Baltassar, let not the dream and the interpretation thereof trouble thee. Baltassar answered, and said: My lord, the dream be to them that hate thee, and the interpretation thereof to thy enemies. 
    17: The tree which thou sawest which was high and strong, whose height reached to the skies, and the sight thereof into all the earth: 
    18: And the branches thereof were most beautiful, and its fruit exceeding much, and in it was food for all, under which the beasts of the field dwelt, and the birds of the air had their abode in its branches. 
    19: It is thou, O king, who art grown great and become mighty: for thy greatness hath grown, and hath reached to heaven, and thy power unto the ends of the earth. 
    20: And whereas the king saw a watcher, and a holy one come down from heaven, and say: Cut down the tree and destroy it, but leave the stump of the roots thereof in the earth, and let it be bound with iron and brass among the grass without, and let it be sprinkled with the dew of heaven, and let his feeding be with the wild beasts, till seven times pass over him.
    21: This is the interpretation of the sentence of the most High, which is come upon my lord the king. 
    22: They shall cast thee out from among men, and thy dwelling shall be with cattle and with wild beasts, and thou shalt eat grass as an ox, and shalt be wet with the dew of heaven: and seven times shall pass over thee, till thou know that the most High ruleth over the kingdom of men, and giveth it to whomsoever he will. 
    23: But whereas he commanded, that the stump of the roots thereof, that is, of the tree, should be left: thy kingdom shall remain to thee after thou shalt have known that power is from heaven. 
    24: Wherefore, O king, let my counsel be acceptable to thee, and redeem thou thy sins with alms, and thy iniquities with works of mercy to the poor: perhaps he will forgive thy offences. 
    25: All these things came upon king Nabuchodonosor.
    26: At the end of twelve months he was walking in the palace of Babylon. 
    27: And the king answered, and said: Is not this the great Babylon, which I have built to be the seat of the kingdom, by the strength of my power, and in the glory of my excellence? 
    28: And while the word was yet in the king's mouth, a voice came down from heaven: To thee, O king Nabuchodonosor, it is said: Thy kingdom shall pass from thee, 
    29: And they shall cast thee out from among men, and thy dwelling shall be with cattle and wild beasts: thou shalt eat grass like an ox, and seven times shall pass over thee, till thou know that the most High ruleth in the kingdom of men, and giveth it to whomsoever he will. 
    30: The same hour the word was fulfilled upon Nabuchodonosor, and he was driven away from among men, and did eat grass like an ox, and his body was wet with the dew of heaven: till his hairs grew like the feathers of eagles, and his nails like birds' claws.
    31: Now at the end of the days, I Nabuchodonosor lifted up my eyes to heaven, and my sense was restored to me: and I blessed the most High, and I praised and glorified him that liveth for ever: for his power is an everlasting power, and his kingdom is to all generations. 
    32: And all the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing before him: for he doth according to his will, as well with the powers of heaven, as among the inhabitants of the earth: and there is none that can resist his hand, and say to him: Why hast thou done it? 
    33: At the same time my sense returned to me, and I came to the honour and glory of my kingdom: and my shape returned to me: and my nobles, and my magistrates sought for me, and I was restored to my kingdom: and greater majesty was added to me. 
    34: Therefore I Nabuchodonosor do now praise, and magnify, and glorify the King of heaven: because all his works are true, and his ways judgments, and them that walk in pride he is able to abase.

End of day 259.