Day 340:

Reading Hebrews, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: God, who, at sundry times and in divers manners, spoke in times past to the fathers by the prophets, last of all, 
    2: In these days hath spoken to us by his Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the world. 
    3: Who being the brightness of his glory, and the figure of his substance, and upholding all things by the word of his power, making purgation of sins, sitteth on the right hand of the majesty on high. 
    4: Being made so much better than the angels, as he hath inherited a more excellent name than they. 
    5: For to which of the angels hath he said at any time, Thou art my Son, today have I begotten thee? And again, I will be to him a Father, and he shall be to me a Son?
    6: And again, when he bringeth in the first begotten into the world, he saith: And let all the angels of God adore him. 
    7: And to the angels indeed he saith: He that maketh his angels spirits, and his ministers a flame of fire. 
    8: But to the Son: Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever: a sceptre of justice is the sceptre of thy kingdom. 
    9: Thou hast loved justice, and hated iniquity: therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows. 
    10: And: Thou in the beginning, O Lord, didst found the earth: and the works of thy hands are the heavens.
    11: They shall perish, but thou shalt continue: and they shall all grow old as a garment. 
    12: And as a vesture shalt thou change them, and they shall be changed: but thou art the selfsame, and thy years shall not fail. 
    13: But to which of the angels said he at any time: Sit on my right hand, until I make thy enemies thy footstool? 
    14: Are they not all ministering spirits, sent to minister for them, who shall receive the inheritance of salvation?

  Chapter 2.

    1: Therefore ought we more diligently to observe the things which we have heard, lest perhaps we should let them slip. 
    2: For if the word, spoken by angels, became steadfast, and every transgression and disobedience received a just recompense of reward: 
    3: How shall we escape if we neglect so great salvation? which having begun to be declared by the Lord, was confirmed unto us by them that heard him. 
    4: God also bearing them witness by signs, and wonders, and divers miracles, and distributions of the Holy Ghost, according to his own will. 
    5: For God hath not subjected unto angels the world to come, whereof we speak.
    6: But one in a certain place hath testified, saying: What is man, that thou art mindful of him: or the son of man, that thou visitest him? 
    7: Thou hast made him a little lower than the angels: thou hast crowned him with glory and honour, and hast set him over the works of thy hands: 
    8: Thou hast subjected all things under his feet. For in that he hath subjected all things to him, he left nothing not subject to him. But now we see not as yet all things subject to him. 
    9: But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels, for the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honour: that, through the grace of God, he might taste death for all. 
    10: For it became him, for whom are all things, and by whom are all things, who had brought many children into glory, to perfect the author of their salvation, by his passion.
    11: For both he that sanctifieth, and they who are sanctified, are all of one. For which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren, saying: 
    12: I will declare thy name to my brethren; in the midst of the church will I praise thee. 
    13: And again: I will put my trust in him. And again: Behold I and my children, whom God hath given me. 
    14: Therefore because the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself in like manner hath been partaker of the same: that, through death, he might destroy him who had the empire of death, that is to say, the devil: 
    15: And might deliver them, who through the fear of death were all their lifetime subject to servitude.
    16: For no where doth he take hold of the angels: but of the seed of Abraham he taketh hold. 
    17: Wherefore it behoved him in all things to be made like unto his brethren, that he might become a merciful and faithful priest before God, that he might be a propitiation for the sins of the people. 
    18: For in that, wherein he himself hath suffered and been tempted, he is able to succour them also that are tempted.

  Chapter 3.

    1: Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly vocation, consider the apostle and high priest of our confession, Jesus: 
    2: Who is faithful to him that made him, as was also Moses in all his house. 
    3: For this man was counted worthy of greater glory than Moses, by so much as he that hath built the house, hath greater honour than the house. 
    4: For every house is built by some man: but he that created all things, is God. 
    5: And Moses indeed was faithful in all his house as a servant, for a testimony of those things which were to be said:
    6: But Christ as the Son in his own house: which house are we, if we hold fast the confidence and glory of hope unto the end. 
    7: Wherefore, as the Holy Ghost saith: Today if you shall hear his voice, 
    8: Harden not your hearts, as in the provocation; in the day of temptation in the desert, 
    9: Where your fathers tempted me, proved and saw my works, 
    10: Forty years: for which cause I was offended with this generation, and I said: They always err in heart. And they have not known my ways,
    11: As I have sworn in my wrath: If they shall enter into my rest. 
    12: Take heed, brethren, lest perhaps there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief, to depart from the living God. 
    13: But exhort one another every day, whilst it is called today, that none of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin. 
    14: For we are made partakers of Christ: yet so, if we hold the beginning of his substance firm unto the end. 
    15: While it is said, Today if you shall hear his voice, harden not your hearts, as in that provocation.
    16: For some who heard did provoke: but not all that came out of Egypt by Moses. 
    17: And with whom was he offended forty years? Was it not with them that sinned, whose carcasses were overthrown in the desert? 
    18: And to whom did he swear, that they should not enter into his rest: but to them that were incredulous? 
    19: And we see that they could not enter in, because of unbelief.

  Chapter 4.

    1: Let us fear therefore lest the promise being left of entering into his rest, any of you should be thought to be wanting. 
    2: For unto us also it hath been declared, in like manner as unto them. But the word of hearing did not profit them, not being mixed with faith of those things they heard. 
    3: For we, who have believed, shall enter into rest; as he said: As I have sworn in my wrath; If they shall enter into my rest; and this indeed when the works from the foundation of the world were finished. 
    4: For in a certain place he spoke of the seventh day thus: And God rested the seventh day from all his works. 
    5: And in this place again: If they shall enter into my rest.
    6: Seeing then it remaineth that some are to enter into it, and they, to whom it was first preached, did not enter because of unbelief: 
    7: Again he limiteth a certain day, saying in David, Today, after so long a time, as it is above said: Today if you shall hear his voice, harden not your hearts. 
    8: For if Jesus had given them rest, he would never have afterwards spoken of another day. 
    9: There remaineth therefore a day of rest for the people of God. 
    10: For he that is entered into his rest, the same also hath rested from his works, as God did from his.
    11: Let us hasten therefore to enter into that rest; lest any man fall into the same example of unbelief. 
    12: For the word of God is living and effectual, and more piercing than any two edged sword; and reaching unto the division of the soul and the spirit, of the joints also and the marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. 
    13: Neither is there any creature invisible in his sight: but all things are naked and open to his eyes, to whom our speech is. 
    14: Having therefore a great high priest that hath passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God: let us hold fast our confession. 
    15: For we have not a high priest, who can not have compassion on our infirmities: but one tempted in all things like as we are, without sin.
    16: Let us go therefore with confidence to the throne of grace: that we may obtain mercy, and find grace in seasonable aid.

End of day 340.