Day 185:

Reading Proverbs, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: A wise son heareth the doctrine of his father: but he that is a scorner, beareth not when he is reproved. 
    2: Of the fruit of his own mouth shall a man be filled with good things: but the soul of transgressors is wicked. 
    3: He that keepeth his mouth, keepeth his soul: but he that hath no guard on his speech shall meet with evils. 
    4: The sluggard willeth and willeth not: but the soul of them that work, shall be made fat. 
    5: The just shall hate a lying word: but the wicked confoundeth, and shall be confounded.
    6: Justice keepeth the way of the innocent: but wickedness overthroweth the sinner. 
    7: One is as it were rich, when he hath nothing: and another is as it were poor, when he hath great riches. 
    8: The ransom of a man's life are his riches: but he that is poor beareth not reprehension. 
    9: The light of the just giveth joy: but the lamp of the wicked shall be put out. 
    10: Among the proud there are always contentions: but they that do all things with counsel, are ruled by wisdom.
    11: Substance got in haste shall be diminished: but that which by little and little is gathered with the hand shall increase. 
    12: Hope that is deferred afflicteth the soul: desire when it cometh is a tree of life. 
    13: Whosoever speaketh ill of any thing, bindeth himself for the time to come: but he that feareth the commandment, shall dwell in peace. Deceitful souls go astray in sins: the just are merciful, and shew mercy. 
    14: The law of the wise is a fountain of life, that he may decline from the ruin of death. 
    15: Good instruction shall give grace: in the way of scorners is a deep pit.
    16: The prudent man doth all things with counsel: but he that is a fool, layeth open his folly. 
    17: The messenger of the wicked shall fall into mischief: but a faithful ambassador is health. 
    18: Poverty and shame to him that refuseth instruction: but he that yieldeth to reproof, shall be glorified. 
    19: The desire that is accomplished, delighteth the soul: fools hate them that flee from evil things. 
    20: He that walketh with the wise, shall be wise: a friend of fools shall become like to them.
    21: Evil pursueth sinners: and to the just good shall be repaid. 
    22: The good man leaveth heirs, sons, and grandsons: and the substance of the sinner is kept for the just. 
    23: Much food is in the tillage of fathers: but for others it is gathered with out judgment. 
    24: He that spareth the rod hateth his son: but he that loveth him correcteth him betimes. 
    25: The just eateth and filleth his soul: but the belly of the wicked is never to be filled.

  Chapter 14.

    1: A wise woman buildeth her house: but the foolish will pull down with her hands that also which is built. 
    2: He that walketh in the right way, and feareth God, is despised by him that goeth by an infamous way. 
    3: In the mouth of a fool is the rod of pride: but the lips of the wise preserve them. 
    4: Where there are no oxen, the crib is empty: but where there is much corn, there the strength of the ox is manifest. 
    5: A faithful witness will not lie: but a deceitful witness uttereth a lie.
    6: A scorner seeketh wisdom, and findeth it not: the learning of the wise is easy. 
    7: Go against a foolish man, and he knoweth not the lips of prudence. 
    8: The wisdom of a discreet man is to understand his way: and the imprudence of fools erreth. 
    9: A fool will laugh at sin, but among the just grace shall abide. 
    10: The heart that knoweth the bitterness of his own soul, in his joy the stranger shall not intermeddle.
    11: The house of the wicked shall be destroyed: but the tabernacles of the just shall flourish. 
    12: There is a way which seemeth just to a man: but the ends thereof lead to death. 
    13: Laughter shall be mingled with sorrow, and mourning taketh hold of the end of joy. 
    14: A fool shall be filled with his own ways, and the good man shall be above him. 
    15: The innocent believeth every word: the discreet man considereth his steps. No good shall come to the deceitful son: but the wise servant shall prosper in his dealings, and his way shall be made straight.
    16: A wise man feareth and declineth from evil: the fool leapeth over and is confident. 
    17: The impatient man shall work folly: and the crafty man is hateful. 
    18: The childish shall possess folly, and the prudent, shall look for knowledge. 
    19: The evil shall fall down before the good: and the wicked before the gates of the just. 
    20: The poor man shall be hateful even to his own neighbour: but the friends of the rich are many.
    21: He that despiseth his neighbour, sinneth: but he that sheweth mercy to the poor, shall be blessed. He that believeth in the Lord, loveth mercy. 
    22: They err that work evil: but mercy and truth prepare good things. 
    23: In much work there shall be abundance: but where there are many words, there is oftentimes want. 
    24: The crown of the wise is their riches: the folly of fools, imprudence. 
    25: A faithful witness delivereth souls: and the double dealer uttereth lies.
    26: In the fear of the Lord is confidence of strength, and there shall be hope for his children. 
    27: The fear of the Lord is a fountain of life, to decline from the ruin of death. 
    28: In the multitude of people is the dignity of the king: and in the small number of people the dishonour of the prince. 
    29: He that is patient, is governed with much wisdom: but he that is impatient, exalteth his folly. 
    30: Soundness of heart is the life of the flesh: but envy is the rottenness of the bones.
    31: He that oppresseth the poor, upbraideth his Maker: but he that hath pity on the poor, honoureth him. 
    32: The wicked man shall be driven out in his wickedness: but the just hath hope in his death. 
    33: In the heart of the prudent resteth wisdom, and it shall instruct all the ignorant. 
    34: Justice exalteth a nation: but sin maketh nations miserable. 
    35: A wise servant is acceptable to the king: he that is good for nothing shall feel his anger.

  Chapter 15.

    1: A mild answer breaketh wrath: but a harsh word stirreth up fury. 
    2: The tongue of the wise adorneth knowledge: but the mouth of fools bubbleth out folly. 
    3: The eyes of the Lord in every place behold the good and the evil. 
    4: A peaceable tongue is a tree of life: but that which is immoderate, shall crush the spirit. 
    5: A fool laugheth at the instruction of his father: but he that regardeth reproofs shall become prudent. In abundant justice there is the greatest strength: but the devices of the wicked shall be rooted out.
    6: The house of the just is very much strength: and in the fruits of the wicked is trouble. 
    7: The lips of the wise shall disperse knowledge: the heart of fools shall be unlike. 
    8: The victims of the wicked are abominable to the Lord: the vows of the just are acceptable. 
    9: The way of the wicked is an abomination to the Lord: he that followeth justice is beloved by him. 
    10: Instruction is grievous to him that forsaketh the way of life: he that hateth reproof shall die.
    11: Hell and destruction are before the Lord: how much more the hearts of the children of men? 
    12: A corrupt man loveth not one that reproveth him: nor will he go to the wise. 
    13: A glad heart maketh a cheerful countenance: but by grief of mind the spirit is cast down. 
    14: The heart of the wise seeketh instruction: and the mouth of fools feedeth on foolishness. 
    15: All the days of the poor are evil: a secure mind is like a continual feast.
    16: Better is a little with the fear of the Lord, than great treasures without content, 
    17: It is better to be invited to herbs with love, than to a fatted calf with hatred. 
    18: A passionate man stirreth up strifes: he that is patient appeaseth those that are stirred up. 
    19: The way of the slothful is as a hedge of thorns; the way of the just is without offence. 
    20: A wise son maketh a father joyful: but the foolish man despiseth his mother.
    21: Folly is joy to the fool: and the wise man maketh straight his steps. 
    22: Designs are brought to nothing where there is no counsel: but where there are many counsellors, they are established. 
    23: A man rejoiceth in the sentence of his mouth: and a word in due time is best. 
    24: The path of life is above for the wise, that he may decline from the lowest hell. 
    25: The Lord will destroy the house of the proud: and will strengthen the borders of the widow.
    26: Evil thoughts are an abomination to the Lord: and pure words most beautiful shall be confirmed by him. 
    27: He that is greedy of gain troubleth his own house: but he that hateth bribes shall live. By mercy and faith sins are purged away: and by the fear of the Lord every one declineth from evil. 
    28: The mind of the just studieth obedience: the mouth of the wicked over floweth with evils. 
    29: The Lord is far from the wicked: and he will hear the prayers of the just. 
    30: The light of the eyes rejoiceth the soul: a good name maketh the bones fat.
    31: The ear that heareth the reproofs of life, shall abide in the midst of the wise. 
    32: He that rejecteth instruction, despiseth his own soul: but he that yieldeth to reproof possesseth understanding. 
    33: The fear of the Lord is the lesson of wisdom: and humility goeth before glory.

  Chapter 16.

    1: It is the part of man to prepare the soul: and of the Lord to govern the tongue. 
    2: All the ways of a man are open to his eyes: the Lord is the weigher of spirits. 
    3: Lay open thy works to the Lord: and thy thoughts shall be directed. 
    4: The Lord hath made all things for himself: the wicked also for the evil day. 
    5: Every proud man is an abomination to the Lord: though hand should be joined to hand, he is not innocent. The beginning of a good way is to do justice; and this is more acceptable with God, than to offer sacrifices.
    6: By mercy and truth iniquity is redeemed: and by the fear of the Lord men depart from evil. 
    7: When the ways of man shall please the Lord, he will convert even his enemies to peace. 
    8: Better is a little with justice, than great revenues with iniquity. 
    9: The heart of man disposeth his way: but the Lord must direct his steps. 
    10: Divination is in the lips of the king, his mouth shall not err in judgment.
    11: Weight and balance are judgments of the Lord: and his work all the weights of the bag. 
    12: They that act wickedly are abominable to the king: for the throne is established by justice. 
    13: Just lips are the delight of kings: he that speaketh right things shall be loved. 
    14: The wrath of a king is as messengers of death: and the wise man will pacify it. 
    15: In the cheerfulness of the king's countenance is life: and his clemency is like the latter rain.
    16: Get wisdom, because it is better than gold: and purchase prudence, for it is more precious than silver. 
    17: The path of the just departeth from evils: he that keepeth his soul keepeth his way. 
    18: Pride goeth before destruction: and the spirit is lifted up before a fall. 
    19: It is better to be humbled with the meek, than to divide spoils with the proud. 
    20: The learned in word shall find good things: and he that trusteth in the Lord is blessed.
    21: The wise in heart shall be called prudent: and he that is sweet in words shall attain to greater things. 
    22: Knowledge is a fountain of life to him that possesseth it: the instruction of fools is foolishness. 
    23: The heart of the wise shall instruct his mouth: and shall add grace to his lips. 
    24: Well ordered words are as a honeycomb: sweet to the soul, and health to the bones. 
    25: There is a way that seemeth to a man right: and the ends thereof lead to death.
    26: The soul of him that laboureth, laboureth for himself, because his mouth hath obliged him to it. 
    27: The wicked man diggeth evil, and in his lips is a burning fire. 
    28: A perverse man stirreth up quarrels: and one full of words separateth princes. 
    29: An unjust man allureth his friend: and leadeth him into a way that is not good. 
    30: He that with fixed eyes deviseth wicked things, biting his lips, bringeth: evil to pass.
    31: Old age is a crown of dignity, when it is found in the ways of justice. 
    32: The patient man is better than the valiant: and he that ruleth his spirit than he that taketh cities. 
    33: Lots are cast into the lap, but they are disposed of by the Lord.

End of day 185.