Day 150:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['25', '26', '27', '28']:

  Chapter 25.

    1: Unto the end, a psalm for David. Judge me, O Lord, for I have walked in my innocence: and I have put my trust in the Lord, and shall not be weakened. 
    2: Prove me, O Lord, and try me; burn my reins and my heart. 
    3: For thy mercy is before my eyes; and I am well pleased with thy truth. 
    4: I have not sat with the council of vanity: neither will I go in with the doers of unjust things. 
    5: I have hated the assembly of the malignant; and with the wicked I will not sit.
    6: I will wash my hands among the innocent; and will compass thy altar, O Lord: 
    7: That I may hear the voice of thy praise: and tell of all thy wondrous works. 
    8: I have loved, O Lord, the beauty of thy house; and the place where thy glory dwelleth. 
    9: Take not away my soul, O God, with the wicked: nor my life with bloody men: 
    10: In whose hands are iniquities: their right hand is filled with gifts.
    11: But as for me, I have walked in my innocence: redeem me, and have mercy on me. 
    12: My foot hath stood in the direct way: in the churches I will bless thee, O Lord.

  Chapter 26.

    1: The psalm of David before he was anointed. The Lord is my light and my salvation, whom shall I fear? The Lord is the protector of my life: of whom shall I be afraid? 
    2: Whilst the wicked draw near against me, to eat my flesh. My enemies that trouble me, have themselves been weakened, and have fallen. 
    3: If armies in camp should stand together against me, my heart shall not fear. If a battle should rise up against me, in this will I be confident. 
    4: One thing I have asked of the Lord, this will I seek after; that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life. That I may see the delight of the Lord, and may visit his temple. 
    5: For he hath hidden me in his tabernacle; in the day of evils, he hath protected me in the secret place of his tabernacle.
    6: He hath exalted me upon a rock: and now he hath lifted up my head above my enemies. I have gone round, and have offered up in his tabernacle a sacrifice of jubilation: I will sing, and recite a psalm to the Lord. 
    7: Hear, O Lord, my voice, with which I have cried to thee: have mercy on me and hear me. 
    8: My heart hath said to thee: My face hath sought thee: thy face, O Lord, will I still seek. 
    9: Turn not away thy face from me; decline not in thy wrath from thy servant. Be thou my helper, forsake me not; do not thou despise me, O God my Saviour. 
    10: For my father and my mother have left me: but the Lord hath taken me up.
    11: Set me, O Lord, a law in thy way, and guide me in the right path, because of my enemies. 
    12: Deliver me not over to the will of them that trouble me; for unjust witnesses have risen up against me; and iniquity hath lied to itself. 
    13: I believe to see the good things of the Lord in the land of the living. 
    14: Expect the Lord, do manfully, and let thy heart take courage, and wait thou for the Lord.

  Chapter 27.

    1: A psalm for David himself. Unto thee will I cry, O Lord: O my God, be not thou silent to me: lest thou be silent to me, I become like them that go down into the pit. 
    2: Hear, O Lord, the voice of my supplication, when I pray to thee; when I lift up my hands to thy holy temple. 
    3: Draw me not away together with the wicked; and with the workers of iniquity destroy me not: Who speak peace with their neighbour, but evils are in their hearts. 
    4: Give them according to their works, and according to the wickedness of their inventions. According to the works of their hands give thou to them: render to them their reward. 
    5: Because they have not understood the works of the Lord, and the operations of his hands: thou shalt destroy them, and shalt not build them up.
    6: Blessed be the Lord, for he hath heard the voice of my supplication. 
    7: The Lord is my helper and my protector: in him hath my heart confided, and I have been helped. And my flesh hath flourished again, and with my will I will give praise to him. 
    8: The Lord is the strength of his people, and the protector of the salvation of his anointed. 
    9: Save, O Lord, thy people, and bless thy inheritance: and rule them and exalt them for ever.

  Chapter 28.

    1: A psalm for David, at the finishing of the tabernacle. Bring to the Lord, O ye children of God: bring to the Lord the offspring of rams. 
    2: Bring to the Lord glory and honour: bring to the Lord glory to his name: adore ye the Lord in his holy court. 
    3: The voice of the Lord is upon the waters; the God of majesty hath thundered, The Lord is upon many waters. 
    4: The voice of the Lord is in power; the voice of the Lord in magnificence. 
    5: The voice of the Lord breaketh the cedars: yea, the Lord shall break the cedars of Libanus.
    6: And shall reduce them to pieces, as a calf of Libanus, and as the beloved son of unicorns. 
    7: The voice of the Lord divideth the flame of fire: 
    8: The voice of the Lord shaketh the desert: and the Lord shall shake the desert of Cades. 
    9: The voice of the Lord prepareth the stags: and he will discover the thick woods: and in his temple all shall speak his glory. 
    10: The Lord maketh the flood to dwell: and the Lord shall sit king for ever. The Lord will give strength to his people: the Lord will bless his people with peace.

End of day 150.