Day 133:

Reading Job, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: There was a man in the land of Hus, whose name was Job, and that man was simple and upright, and fearing God, and avoiding evil. 
    2: And there were born to him seven sons and three daughters. 
    3: And his possession was seven thousand sheep, and three thousand camels, and five hundred yoke of oxen, and five hundred she asses, and a family exceeding great: and this man was great among all the people of the east. 
    4: And his sons went, and made a feast by houses every one in his day. And sending they called their three sisters to eat and drink with them. 
    5: And when the days of their feasting were gone about, Job sent to them, and sanctified them: and rising up early offered holocausts for every one of them. For he said: Lest perhaps my sons have sinned, and have blessed God in their hearts. So did Job all days.
    6: Now on a certain day when the sons of God came to stand before the Lord, Satan also was present among them. 
    7: And the Lord said to him: Whence comest thou? And he answered and said: I have gone round about the earth, and walked through it. 
    8: And the Lord said to him: Hast thou considered my servant Job, that there is none like him in the earth, a simple and upright man, and fearing God, and avoiding evil? 
    9: And Satan answering, said: Doth Job fear God in vain? 
    10: Hast not thou made a fence for him, and his house, and all his substance round about, blessed the works of his hands, and his possession hath increased on the earth?
    11: But stretch forth thy hand a little, and touch all that he hath, and see if he blesseth thee not to thy face. 
    12: Then the Lord said to Satan: Behold, all that he hath is in thy hand: only put not forth thy hand upon his person. And Satan went forth from the presence of the Lord. 
    13: Now upon a certain day when his sons and daughters were eating and drinking wine in the house of their eldest brother, 
    14: There came a messenger to Job, and said: The oxen were ploughing, and the asses feeding beside them, 
    15: And the Sabeans rushed in, and took all away, and slew the servants with the sword, and I alone have escaped to tell thee.
    16: And while he was yet speaking, another came, and said: The fire of God fell from heaven, and striking the sheep and the servants, hath consumed them, and I alone have escaped to tell thee. 
    17: And while he also was yet speaking, there came another, and said: The Chaldeans made three troops, and have fallen upon the camels, and taken them, moreover they have slain the servants with the sword, and I alone have escaped to tell thee. 
    18: He was yet speaking, and behold another came in, and said: Thy sons and daughters were eating and drinking wine in the house of their elder brother: 
    19: A violent wind came on a sudden from the side of the desert, and shook the four corners of the house, and it fell upon thy children and they are dead, and I alone have escaped to tell thee. 
    20: Then Job rose up, and rent his garments, and having shaven his head fell down upon the ground and worshipped,
    21: And said: Naked came I out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return thither: the Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away: as it hath pleased the Lord so is it done: blessed be the name of the Lord. 
    22: In all these things Job sinned not by his lips, nor spoke he any foolish thing against God.

  Chapter 2.

    1: And it came to pass, when on a certain day the sons of God came, and stood before the Lord, and Satan came among them, and stood in his sight, 
    2: That the Lord said to Satan: Whence comest thou? And he answered and said: I have gone round about the earth, and walked through it. 
    3: And the Lord said to Satan: Hast thou considered my servant Job, that there is none like him in the earth, a man simple, and upright, and fearing God, and avoiding evil, and still keeping his innocence? But thou hast moved me against him, that I should afflict him without cause. 
    4: And Satan answered, and said: Skin for skin, and all that a man hath he will give for his life: 
    5: But put forth thy hand, and touch his bone and his flesh, and then thou shalt see that he will bless thee to thy face.
    6: And the Lord said to Satan: Behold he is in thy hand, but yet save his life. 
    7: So Satan went forth from the presence Of the Lord, and struck Job with a very grievous ulcer, from the sole of the foot even to the top of his head: 
    8: And he took a potsherd and scraped the corrupt matter, sitting on a dunghill. 
    9: And his wife said to him: Dost thou still continue in thy simplicity? bless God and die. 
    10: And he said to her: Thou hast; spoken like one of the foolish women: if we have received good things at the hand of God, why should we not receive evil? In all these things Job did not sin with his lips.
    11: Now when Job's three friends heard all the evil that had befallen him, they came every one from his own place, Alphas the Themanite, and Baldad the Suhite, and Sophar the Naamathite. For they had made an appointment to come together and visit him, and comfort him. 
    12: And when they had lifted up their eyes afar off, they knew him not, and crying out they wept, and rending their garments they sprinkled dust upon their heads towards heaven. 
    13: And they sat with him on the ground seven days and seven nights, and no man spoke to him a word: for they saw that his grief was very great.

  Chapter 3.

    1: After this Job opened his mouth, and cursed his day, 
    2: And he said: 
    3: Let the day perish wherein I was born, and the night in which it was said: A man child is conceived. 
    4: Let that day be turned into darkness, let not God regard it from above, and let not the light shine upon it. 
    5: Let darkness, and the shadow of death cover it, let a mist overspread it, and let it be wrapped up in bitterness.
    6: Let a darksome whirlwind seize upon that night, let it not be counted in the days of the year, nor numbered in the months. 
    7: Let that night be solitary, and not worthy of praise. 
    8: Let them curse it who curse the day. who are ready to raise up a leviathan: 
    9: Let the stars be darkened with the mist thereof: let it expect light and not see it, nor the rising of the dawning of the day: 
    10: Because it shut not up the doors of the womb that bore me, nor took away evils from my eyes.
    11: Why did I not die in the womb, why did I not perish when I came out of the belly? 
    12: Why received upon the knees? why suckled at the breasts? 
    13: For now I should have been asleep and still, and should have rest in my sleep. 
    14: With kings and consuls of the earth, who build themselves solitudes: 
    15: Or with princes, that possess gold, and All their houses with silver:
    16: Or as a hidden untimely birth I should not be, or as they that being conceived have not seen the light. 
    17: There the wicked cease from tumult, and there the wearied in strength are at rest. 
    18: And they sometime bound together without disquiet, have not heard the voice of the oppressor. 
    19: The small and great are there, and the servant is free from his master. 
    20: Why is light given to him that is in misery, and life to them that are in bitterness of soul?
    21: That look for death, and it cometh not, as they that dig for a treasure: 
    22: And they rejoice exceedingly when they have found the grave. 
    23: To a man whose way is hidden, and God hath surrounded him with darkness? 
    24: Before I eat I sigh: and as overflowing waters, so is my roaring: 
    25: For the fear which I feared hath come upon me: and that which I was afraid of, hath befallen me.
    26: Have I not dissembled? have I not kept silence? have I not been quiet? and indignation is come upon me.

  Chapter 4.

    1: Then Eliphaz the Themanite answered, and said: 
    2: If we begin to speak to thee, perhaps thou wilt take it ill, but who can withhold the words he hath conceived? 
    3: Behold thou hast taught many, and thou hast strengthened the weary hands: 
    4: Thy words have confirmed them that were staggering, and thou hast strengthened the trembling knees: 
    5: But now the scourge is come upon thee, and thou faintest: it hath touched thee, and thou art troubled.
    6: Where is thy fear, thy fortitude, thy patience, and the perfection of thy ways? 
    7: Remember, I pray thee, who ever perished being innocent? or when were the just destroyed? 
    8: On the contrary I have seen those who work iniquity, and sow sorrows, and reap them, 
    9: Perishing by the blast of God, and consumed by the spirit of his wrath. 
    10: The roaring of the lion, and the voice of the lioness, and the teeth of the whelps of lions are broken:
    11: The tiger hath perished for want of prey, and the young lions are scattered abroad. 
    12: Now there was a word spoken to me in private, and my ears by stealth as it were received the veins of its whisper. 
    13: In the horror of a vision by night, when deep sleep is wont to hold men, 
    14: Fear seized upon me, and trembling, and all my bones were affrighted: 
    15: And when a spirit passed before me, the hair of my flesh stood up.
    16: There stood one whose countenance I knew not, an image before my eyes, and I heard the voice as it were of a gentle wind: 
    17: Shall man be justified in comparison of God, or shall a man be more pure than his maker? 
    18: Behold they that serve him are not steadfast, and in his angels he found wickedness: 
    19: How much more shall they that dwell in houses of clay, who have an earthly foundation, be consumed as with the moth? 
    20: From morning till evening they shall be cut down: and because no one understandeth, they shall perish for ever.
    21: And they that shall be left, shall be taken away from them: they shall die, and not in wisdom.

End of day 133.