Day 304:

Reading John, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: Before the festival day of the pasch, Jesus knowing that his hour was come, that he should pass out of this world to the Father: having loved his own who were in the world, he loved them unto the end. 
    2: And when supper was done, (the devil having now put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon, to betray him,) 
    3: Knowing that the Father had given him all things into his hands, and that he came from God, and goeth to God; 
    4: He riseth from supper, and layeth aside his garments, and having taken a towel, girded himself. 
    5: After that, he putteth water into a basin, and began to wash the feet of the disciples, and to wipe them with the towel wherewith he was girded.
    6: He cometh therefore to Simon Peter. And Peter saith to him: Lord, dost thou wash my feet? 
    7: Jesus answered, and said to him: What I do thou knowest not now; but thou shalt know hereafter. 
    8: Peter saith to him: Thou shalt never wash my feet. Jesus answered him: If I wash thee not, thou shalt have no part with me. 
    9: Simon Peter saith to him: Lord, not only my feet, but also my hands and my head. 
    10: Jesus saith to him: He that is washed, needeth not but to wash his feet, but is clean wholly. And you are clean, but not all.
    11: For he knew who he was that would betray him; therefore he said: You are not all clean. 
    12: Then after he had washed their feet, and taken his garments, being set down again, he said to them: Know you what I have done to you? 
    13: You call me Master, and Lord; and you say well, for so I am. 
    14: If then I being your Lord and Master, have washed your feet; you also ought to wash one another's feet. 
    15: For I have given you an example, that as I have done to you, so you do also.
    16: Amen, amen I say to you: The servant is not greater than his lord; neither is the apostle greater than he that sent him. 
    17: If you know these things, you shall be blessed if you do them. 
    18: I speak not of you all: I know whom I have chosen. But that the scripture may be fulfilled: He that eateth bread with me, shall lift up his heel against me. 
    19: At present I tell you, before it come to pass: that when it shall come to pass, you may believe that I am he. 
    20: Amen, amen I say to you, he that receiveth whomsoever I send, receiveth me; and he that receiveth me, receiveth him that sent me.
    21: When Jesus had said these things, he was troubled in spirit; and he testified, and said: Amen, amen I say to you, one of you shall betray me. 
    22: The disciples therefore looked one upon another, doubting of whom he spoke. 
    23: Now there was leaning on Jesus' bosom one of his disciples, whom Jesus loved. 
    24: Simon Peter therefore beckoned to him, and said to him: Who is it of whom he speaketh? 
    25: He therefore, leaning on the breast of Jesus, saith to him: Lord, who is it?
    26: Jesus answered: He it is to whom I shall reach bread dipped. And when he had dipped the bread, he gave it to Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon. 
    27: And after the morsel, Satan entered into him. And Jesus said to him: That which thou dost, do quickly. 
    28: Now no man at the table knew to what purpose he said this unto him. 
    29: For some thought, because Judas had the purse, that Jesus had said to him: Buy those things which we have need of for the festival day: or that he should give something to the poor. 
    30: He therefore having received the morsel, went out immediately. And it was night.
    31: When he therefore was gone out, Jesus said: Now is the Son of man glorified, and God is glorified in him. 
    32: If God be glorified in him, God also will glorify him in himself; and immediately will he glorify him. 
    33: Little children, yet a little while I am with you. You shall seek me; and as I said to the Jews: Whither I go you cannot come; so I say to you now. 
    34: A new commandment I give unto you: That you love one another, as I have loved you, that you also love one another. 
    35: By this shall all men know that you are my disciples, if you have love one for another.
    36: Simon Peter saith to him: Lord, whither goest thou? Jesus answered: Whither I go, thou canst not follow me now; but thou shalt follow hereafter. 
    37: Peter saith to him: Why cannot I follow thee now? I will lay down my life for thee. 
    38: Jesus answered him: Wilt thou lay down thy life for me? Amen, amen I say to thee, the cock shall not crow, till thou deny me thrice.

  Chapter 14.

    1: Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. 
    2: In my Father's house there are many mansions. If not, I would have told you: because I go to prepare a place for you. 
    3: And if I shall go, and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and will take you to myself; that where I am, you also may be. 
    4: And whither I go you know, and the way you know. 
    5: Thomas saith to him: Lord, we know not whither thou goest; and how can we know the way?
    6: Jesus saith to him: I am the way, and the truth, and the life. No man cometh to the Father, but by me. 
    7: If you had known me, you would without doubt have known my Father also: and from henceforth you shall know him, and you have seen him. 
    8: Philip saith to him: Lord, shew us the Father, and it is enough for us. 
    9: Jesus saith to him: Have I been so long a time with you; and have you not known me? Philip, he that seeth me seeth the Father also. How sayest thou, shew us the Father? 
    10: Do you not believe, that I am in the Father, and the Father in me? The words that I speak to you, I speak not of myself. But the Father who abideth in me, he doth the works.
    11: Believe you not that I am in the Father, and the Father in me? 
    12: Otherwise believe for the very works' sake. Amen, amen I say to you, he that believeth in me, the works that I do, he also shall do; and greater than these shall he do. 
    13: Because I go to the Father: and whatsoever you shall ask the Father in my name, that will I do: that the Father may be glorified in the Son. 
    14: If you shall ask me any thing in my name, that I will do. 
    15: If you love me, keep my commandments.
    16: And I will ask the Father, and he shall give you another Paraclete, that he may abide with you for ever. 
    17: The spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, nor knoweth him: but you shall know him; because he shall abide with you, and shall be in you. 
    18: I will not leave you orphans, I will come to you. 
    19: Yet a little while: and the world seeth me no more. But you see me: because I live, and you shall live. 
    20: In that day you shall know, that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you.
    21: He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them; he it is that loveth me. And he that loveth me, shall be loved of my Father: and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him. 
    22: Judas saith to him, not the Iscariot: Lord, how is it, that thou wilt manifest thyself to us, and not to the world? 
    23: Jesus answered, and said to him: If any one love me, he will keep my word, and my Father will love him, and we will come to him, and will make our abode with him. 
    24: He that loveth me not, keepeth not my words. And the word which you have heard, is not mine; but the Father's who sent me. 
    25: These things have I spoken to you, abiding with you.
    26: But the Paraclete, the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things, and bring all things to your mind, whatsoever I shall have said to you. 
    27: Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, do I give unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, nor let it be afraid. 
    28: You have heard that I said to you: I go away, and I come unto you. If you loved me, you would indeed be glad, because I go to the Father: for the Father is greater than I. 
    29: And now I have told you before it comes to pass: that when it shall come to pass, you may believe. 
    30: I will not now speak many things with you. For the prince of this world cometh, and in me he hath not any thing.
    31: But that the world may know, that I love the Father: and as the Father hath given me commandment, so do I: Arise, let us go hence.

  Chapter 15.

    1: I am the true vine; and my Father is the husbandman. 
    2: Every branch in me, that beareth not fruit, he will take away: and every one that beareth fruit, he will purge it, that it may bring forth more fruit. 
    3: Now you are clean by reason of the word, which I have spoken to you. 
    4: Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, unless it abide in the vine, so neither can you, unless you abide in me. 
    5: I am the vine: you the branches: he that abideth in me, and I in him, the same beareth much fruit: for without me you can do nothing.
    6: If any one abide not in me, he shall be cast forth as a branch, and shall wither, and they shall gather him up, and cast him into the fire, and he burneth. 
    7: If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, you shall ask whatever you will, and it shall be done unto you. 
    8: In this is my Father glorified; that you bring forth very much fruit, and become my disciples. 
    9: As the Father hath loved me, I also have loved you. Abide in my love. 
    10: If you keep my commandments, you shall abide in my love; as I also have kept my Father's commandments, and do abide in his love.
    11: These things I have spoken to you, that my joy may be in you, and your joy may be filled. 
    12: This is my commandment, that you love one another, as I have loved you. 
    13: Greater love than this no man hath, that a man lay down his life for his friends. 
    14: You are my friends, if you do the things that I command you. 
    15: I will not now call you servants: for the servant knoweth not what his lord doth. But I have called you friends: because all things whatsoever I have heard of my Father, I have made known to you.
    16: You have not chosen me: but I have chosen you; and have appointed you, that you should go, and should bring forth fruit; and your fruit should remain: that whatsoever you shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it you. 
    17: These things I command you, that you love one another. 
    18: If the world hate you, know ye, that it hath hated me before you. 
    19: If you had been of the world, the world would love its own: but because you are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you. 
    20: Remember my word that I said to you: The servant is not greater than his master. If they have persecuted me, they will also persecute you: if they have kept my word, they will keep yours also.
    21: But all these things they will do to you for my name's sake: because they know not him who sent me. 
    22: If I had not come, and spoken to them, they would not have sin; but now they have no excuse for their sin. 
    23: He that hateth me, hateth my Father also. 
    24: If I had not done among them the works that no other man hath done, they would not have sin; but now they have both seen and hated both me and my Father. 
    25: But that the word may be fulfilled which is written in their law: They hated me without cause.
    26: But when the Paraclete cometh, whom I will send you from the Father, the Spirit of truth, who proceedeth from the Father, he shall give testimony of me. 
    27: And you shall give testimony, because you are with me from the beginning.

  Chapter 16.

    1: These things have I spoken to you, that you may not be scandalized. 
    2: They will put you out of the synagogues: yea, the hour cometh, that whosoever killeth you, will think that he doth a service to God. 
    3: And these things will they do to you; because they have not known the Father, nor me. 
    4: But these things I have told you, that when the hour shall come, you may remember that I told you of them. 
    5: But I told you not these things from the beginning, because I was with you. And now I go to him that sent me, and none of you asketh me: Whither goest thou?
    6: But because I have spoken these things to you, sorrow hath filled your heart. 
    7: But I tell you the truth: it is expedient to you that I go: for if I go not, the Paraclete will not come to you; but if I go, I will send him to you. 
    8: And when he is come, he will convict the world of sin, and of justice, and of judgment. 
    9: Of sin: because they believed not in me. 
    10: And of justice: because I go to the Father; and you shall see me no longer.
    11: And of judgment: because the prince of this world is already judged. 
    12: I have yet many things to say to you: but you cannot bear them now. 
    13: But when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he will teach you all truth. For he shall not speak of himself; but what things soever he shall hear, he shall speak; and the things that are to come, he shall shew you. 
    14: He shall glorify me; because he shall receive of mine, and shall shew it to you. 
    15: All things whatsoever the Father hath, are mine. Therefore I said, that he shall receive of mine, and shew it to you.
    16: A little while, and now you shall not see me; and again a little while, and you shall see me: because I go to the Father. 
    17: Then some of the disciples said one to another: What is this that he saith to us: A little while, and you shall not see me; and again a little while, and you shall see me, and, because I go to the Father? 
    18: They said therefore: What is this that he saith, A little while? we know not what he speaketh. 
    19: And Jesus knew that they had a mind to ask him; and he said to them: Of this do you inquire among yourselves, because I said: A little while, and you shall not see me; and again a little while, and you shall see me? 
    20: Amen, amen I say to you, that you shall lament and weep, but the world shall rejoice; and you shall be made sorrowful, but your sorrow shall be turned into joy.
    21: A woman, when she is in labour, hath sorrow, because her hour is come; but when she hath brought forth the child, she remembereth no more the anguish, for joy that a man is born into the world. 
    22: So also you now indeed have sorrow; but I will see you again, and your heart shall rejoice; and your joy no man shall take from you. 
    23: And in that day you shall not ask me any thing. Amen, amen I say to you: if you ask the Father any thing in my name, he will give it you. 
    24: Hitherto you have not asked any thing in my name. Ask, and you shall receive; that your joy may be full. 
    25: These things I have spoken to you in proverbs. The hour cometh, when I will no more speak to you in proverbs, but will shew you plainly of the Father.
    26: In that day you shall ask in my name; and I say not to you, that I will ask the Father for you: 
    27: For the Father himself loveth you, because you have loved me, and have believed that I came out from God. 
    28: I came forth from the Father, and am come into the world: again I leave the world, and I go to the Father. 
    29: His disciples say to him: Behold, now thou speakest plainly, and speakest no proverb. 
    30: Now we know that thou knowest all things, and thou needest not that any man should ask thee. By this we believe that thou camest forth from God.
    31: Jesus answered them: Do you now believe? 
    32: Behold, the hour cometh, and it is now come, that you shall be scattered every man to his own, and shall leave me alone; and yet I am not alone, because the Father is with me. 
    33: These things I have spoken to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you shall have distress: but have confidence, I have overcome the world.

End of day 304.