Day 134:

Reading Job, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: Call now if there be any that will answer thee, and turn to some of the saints. 
    2: Anger indeed killeth the foolish, and envy slayeth the little one. 
    3: I have seen a fool with a strong root, and I cursed his beauty immediately. 
    4: His children shall be far from safety, and shall be destroyed in the gate, and there shall be none to deliver them. 
    5: Whose harvest the hungry shall eat, and the armed man shall take him by violence, and the thirsty shall drink up his riches.
    6: Nothing upon earth is done without a voice cause, and sorrow doth not spring out of the ground. 
    7: Man is born to labour and the bird to fly. 
    8: Wherefore I will pray to the Lord, and address my speech to God: 
    9: Who doth great things and unsearchable and wonderful things without number: 
    10: Who giveth rain upon the face of the earth, and watereth all things with waters:
    11: Who setteth up the humble on high, and comforteth with health those that mourn. 
    12: Who bringeth to nought the designs of the malignant, so that their hands cannot accomplish what they had begun: 
    13: Who catcheth the wise in their craftiness, and disappointeth the counsel of the wicked: 
    14: They shall meet with darkness in the day, and grope at noonday as in the night. 
    15: But he shall save the needy from the sword of their mouth, and the poor from the hand of the violent.
    16: And to the needy there shall be hope, but iniquity shall draw in her mouth. 
    17: Blessed is the man whom God correcteth: refuse not therefore the chastising of the lord: 
    18: For he woundeth, and cureth: he striketh, and his hands shall heal. 
    19: In six troubles he shall deliver thee, and in the seventh, evil shall not touch thee. 
    20: In famine he shall deliver thee from death: and in battle, from the hand of the sword.
    21: Thou shalt he hidden from the scourge of the tongue: and thou shalt not fear calamity when it cometh. 
    22: In destruction and famine then shalt laugh: and thou shalt not be afraid of the beasts of the earth. 
    23: But thou shalt have a covenant with the stones of the lands, and the beasts of the earth shall be at peace with thee. 
    24: And thou shalt know that thy tabernacle is in peace, and visiting thy beauty thou shalt not sin. 
    25: Thou shalt know also that thy seed shall be multiplied, and thy offspring like the grass of the earth.
    26: Thou shalt enter into the grave in abundance, as a heap of wheat is brought in its season. 
    27: Behold, this is even so, as we have searched out: which thou having heard, consider it thoroughly in thy mind.

  Chapter 6.

    1: But Job answered, and said: 
    2: O that my sins, whereby I have deserved wrath, and the calamity that I suffer, were weighed in a balance. 
    3: As the sand of the sea this would appear heavier: therefore my words are full of sorrow: 
    4: For the arrows of the Lord are in me, the rage whereof drinketh up my spirit, and the terrors of the Lord war against me. 
    5: Will the wild ass bray when he hath grass? or will the ox low when he standeth before a full manger?
    6: Or can an unsavoury thing be eaten, that is not seasoned with salt? or can a man taste that which when tasted bringeth death? 
    7: The things which before my soul would not touch, now, through anguish are my meats. 
    8: Who will grant that my request may come: and that God may give me what I look for? 
    9: And that he that hath begun may destroy me, that he may let loose his hand, and cut me off? 
    10: And that this may be my comfort, that afflicting me with sorrow, he spare not, nor I contradict the words of the Holy One.
    11: For what is my strength, that I can hold out? or what is my end that I should keep patience? 
    12: My strength is not the strength of stones, nor is my flesh of brass. 
    13: Behold there is no help for me in myself, and my familiar friends also are departed from me. 
    14: He that taketh away mercy from his friend, forsaketh the fear of the Lord. 
    15: My brethren have passed by me, as the torrent that passeth swiftly in the valleys.
    16: They that fear the hoary frost, the snow shall fall upon them. 
    17: At the time when they shall be scattered they shall perish: and after it groweth hot they shall be melted out of their place. 
    18: The paths of their steps are entangled: they shall walk in vain, and shall perish. 
    19: Consider the paths of Thema, the ways of Saba, and wait a little while. 
    20: They are confounded, because I have hoped: they are come also even unto me, and are covered with shame.
    21: Now you are come: and now seeing my affliction you are afraid. 
    22: Did I say: Bring to me, and give me of your substance? 
    23: Or deliver me from the hand of the enemy, and rescue me out of the hand of the mighty? 
    24: Teach me, and I will hold my peace: and if I have been ignorant in any thing, instruct me. 
    25: Why have you detracted the words of truth, whereas there is none of you that can reprove me?
    26: You dress up speeches only to rebuke, and you utter words to the wind. 
    27: You rush in upon the fatherless, and you endeavour to overthrow your friend. 
    28: However finish what you have begun, give ear, and see whether I lie. 
    29: Answer, I beseech you, without contention: and speaking that which is just, judge ye. 
    30: And you shall not And iniquity in my tongue, neither shall folly sound in my mouth.

  Chapter 7.

    1: The life of man upon earth is a warfare, and his days are like the days of a hireling. 
    2: As a servant longeth for the shade, as the hireling looketh for the end of his work; 
    3: So I also have had empty months, and have numbered to myself wearisome nights. 
    4: If I lie down to sleep, I shall say: When shall arise? and again I shall look for the evening, and shall be filled with sorrows even till darkness. 
    5: My flesh is clothed with rottenness and the filth of dust, my skin is withered and drawn together.
    6: My days have passed more swiftly than the web is cut by the weaver, and are consumed without any hope. 
    7: Remember that my life is but wind, and my eyes shall not return to see good things. 
    8: Nor shall the sight of man behold me: thy eyes are upon me, and I shall be no more. 
    9: As a cloud is consumed, and passeth away: so he that shall go down to hell shall not come up. 
    10: Nor shall he return my more into his house, neither shall his place know him any more.
    11: Wherefore I will not spare my month, I will speak in the affliction of my spirit: I will talk with the bitterness of my soul. 
    12: Am I a sea, or a whale, that thou hast enclosed me in a prison? 
    13: If I say: My bed shall comfort me, and I shall be relieved speaking with myself on my couch: 
    14: Thou wilt frighten me with dreams and terrify me with visions. 
    15: So that my soul rather chooseth hanging, and my bones death.
    16: I have done with hope, I shall now live no longer: spare me, for my days are nothing. 
    17: What is a man that thou shouldst magnify him? or why dost thou set thy heart upon him? 
    18: Thou visitest him early in the morning, and thou provest him suddenly. 
    19: How long wilt thou not spare me, nor suffer me to swallow down my spittle? 
    20: I have sinned: what shall I do to thee, O keeper of men? why hast thou set me opposite to thee, and I am become burdensome to myself?
    21: Why dost thou not remove my sin, and why dost thou not take away my iniquity? Behold now I shall sleep in the dust: and if thou seek me in the morning, I shall not be.

  Chapter 8.

    1: The Baldad the Suhite answered, and said: 
    2: How long wilt thou speak these things, and how long shall the words of thy mouth be like a strong wind? 
    3: Doth God pervert judgment, or doth the Almighty overthrow that which is just? 
    4: Although thy children have sinned against him, and he hath left them in the hand of their iniquity: 
    5: Yet if thou wilt arise early to God, and wilt beseech the Almighty:
    6: If thou wilt walk clean and upright, he will presently awake onto thee, and will make the dwelling of thy justice peaceable: 
    7: Insomuch, that if thy former things were small, thy latter things would be multiplied exceedingly. 
    8: For inquire of the former generation, and search diligently into the memory of the fathers: 
    9: (For we are but of yesterday, and are ignorant that our days upon earth are but a shadow:) 
    10: And they shall teach thee: they shall speak to thee, and utter words out of their hearts.
    11: Can the rush be green without moisture? or a sedge-bush grow without water? 
    12: When it is yet in flower, and is not plucked up with the hand, it withereth before all herbs. 
    13: Even so are the ways of all that forget God, and the hope of the hypocrite shall perish: 
    14: His folly shall not please him, and his trust shall be like the spider's web. 
    15: He shall lean upon his house, and it shall not stand: he shall prop it up, and it shall not rise:
    16: He seemeth to have moisture before the sun cometh, and at his rising his blossom shall shoot forth. 
    17: His roots shall be thick upon a heap of stones, and among the stones he shall abide. 
    18: If one swallow him up out of his place, he shall deny him, and shall say: I know thee not. 
    19: For this is the joy of his way, that others may spring again out of the earth. 
    20: God will not cast away the simple, nor reach out his hand to the evildoer:
    21: Until thy mouth be filled with laughter, and thy lips with rejoicing. 
    22: They that hate thee, shall be clothed with confusion: and the dwelling of the wicked shall not stand.

End of day 134.