Day 141:

Reading Job, chapters ['33', '34', '35', '36']:

  Chapter 33.

    1: Hear therefore, O Job, my speeches, and hearken to all my words. 
    2: Behold now I have opened my mouth, let my tongue speak within my jaws. 
    3: My words are from my upright heart, and my lips shall speak a pure sentence. 
    4: The spirit of God made me, and the breath of the Almighty gave me life. 
    5: If thou canst, answer me, and stand up against my face.
    6: Behold God hath made me as well as thee, and of the same clay I also was formed. 
    7: But yet let not my wonder terrify thee, and let not my eloquence be burdensome to thee. 
    8: Now thou has said in my hearing, and I have heard the voice of thy words: 
    9: I am clean, and without sin: I am unspotted, and there is no iniquity in me. 
    10: Because he hath found complaints against me, therefore he hath counted me for his enemy.
    11: He hath put my feet in the stocks, he hath observed all my paths. 
    12: Now this is the thing in which thou art not justified: I will answer thee, that God is greater than man. 
    13: Dost thou strive against him, because he hath not answered thee to all words? 
    14: God speaketh once, and repeateth not the selfsame thing the second time. 
    15: By a dream in a vision by night, when deep sleep falleth upon men, and they are sleeping in their beds:
    16: Then he openeth the ears of men, and teaching instructeth them in what they are to learn. 
    17: That he may withdraw a man from the things he is doing, and may deliver him from pride. 
    18: Rescuing his soul from corruption: and his life from passing to the sword. 
    19: He rebuketh also by sorrow in the bed, and he maketh all his bones to wither. 
    20: Bread becometh abominable to him in his life, and to his soul the meat which before he desired.
    21: His flesh shall be consumed away, and his bones that were covered shall be made bare. 
    22: His soul hath drawn near to corruption, and his life to the destroyers. 
    23: If there shall be an angel speaking for him, one among thousands, to declare man's uprightness, 
    24: He shall have mercy on him, and shall say: Deliver him, that he may not go down to corruption: I have found wherein I may be merciful to him. 
    25: His flesh is consumed with punishment, let him return to the days of his youth.
    26: He shall pray to God, and he will be gracious to him: and he shall see his face with joy, and he will render to man his justice. 
    27: He shall look upon men, and shall say: I have sinned, and indeed I have offended, and I have not received what I have deserved. 
    28: He hath delivered his soul from going into destruction, that it may live and see the light. 
    29: Behold, all these things God worketh three times within every one. 
    30: That he may withdraw their souls from corruption, and enlighten them with the light of the living.
    31: Attend, Job, and hearken to me: and hold thy peace, whilst I speak. 
    32: But if thou hast any thing to say, answer me, speak: for I would have thee to appear just. 
    33: And if thou have not, hear me: hold thy peace, and I will teach thee wisdom.

  Chapter 34.

    1: And Eliu continued his discourse, and said: 
    2: Hear ye, wise men, my words, and ye learned, hearken to me: 
    3: For the ear trieth words, and the mouth discerneth meats by the taste. 
    4: Let us choose to us judgment, and let us see among ourselves what is the best. 
    5: For Job hath said: I am just, and God hath overthrown my judgment.
    6: For in judging me there is a lie: my arrow is violent without any sin. 
    7: What man is there like Job, who drinketh up scorning like water? 
    8: Who goeth in company with them that work iniquity, and walketh with wicked men? 
    9: For he hath said: Man shall not please God, although he run with him. 
    10: Therefore, ye men of understanding, hear me: far from god be wickedness, and iniquity from the Almighty.
    11: For he will render to a man his work, and according to the ways of every one he will reward them. 
    12: For in very deed God will not condemn without cause, neither will the Almighty pervert judgment. 
    13: What other hath he appointed over the earth? or whom hath he set over the world which he made? 
    14: If he turn his heart to him, he shall draw his spirit and breath unto himself. 
    15: All flesh shall perish together, and man shall return into ashes.
    16: If then thou hast understanding, hear what is said, and hearken to the voice of my words. 
    17: Can he be healed that loveth not judgment? and how dost thou so far condemn him that is just? 
    18: Who saith to the king: Thou art an apostate: who calleth rulers ungodly? 
    19: Who accepteth not the persons of princes: nor hath regarded the tyrant, when he contended against the poor man: for all are the work of his hands. 
    20: They shall suddenly die, and the people shall be troubled at midnight, and they shall pass, and take away the violent without hand.
    21: For his eyes are upon the ways of men, and he considereth all their steps. 
    22: There is no darkness, and there is no shadow of death, where they may be hid who work iniquity. 
    23: For it is no longer in the power of man to enter into judgment with God. 
    24: He shall break in pieces many and innumerable, and shall make others to stand in their stead. 
    25: For he knoweth their works: and therefore he shall bring night on them, and they shall be destroyed.
    26: He hath struck them, as being wicked, in open sight. 
    27: Who as it were on purpose have revolted from him, and would not understand all his ways: 
    28: So that they caused the cry of the needy to come to him, and he heard the voice of the poor. 
    29: For when he granteth peace, who is there that can condemn? When he hideth his countenance, who is there that can behold him, whether it regard nations, or all men? 
    30: Who maketh a man that is a hypocrite to reign for the sins of the people?
    31: Seeing then I have spoken of God, I will not hinder thee in thy turn. 
    32: If I have erred, teach thou me: if I have spoken iniquity, I will add no more. 
    33: Doth God require it of thee, because it hath displeased thee? for thou begannest to speak, and not I: but if thou know any thing better, speak. 
    34: Let men of understanding speak to me, and let a wise man hearken to me. 
    35: But Job hath spoken foolishly, and his words sound not discipline.
    36: My father, let Job be tried even to the end: cease not from the man of iniquity. 
    37: Because he addeth blasphemy upon his sins, let him be tied fast in the mean time amongst us: and then let him provoke God to judgment with his speeches.

  Chapter 35.

    1: Moreover Eliu spoke these words: 
    2: Doth thy thought seem right to thee, that thou shouldst say: I am more just than God? 
    3: For thou saidst: That which is right doth not please thee: or what will it profit thee if I sin? 
    4: Therefore I will answer thy words, and thy friends with thee. 
    5: Look up to heaven and see, and behold the sky, that it is higher than thee.
    6: If thou sin, what shalt thou hurt him? and if thy iniquities be multiplied, what shalt thou do against him? 
    7: And if thou do justly, what shalt thou give him, or what shall he receive of thy hand? 
    8: Thy wickedness may hurt a man that is like thee: and thy justice may help the son of man. 
    9: By reason of the multitude of oppressions they shall cry out: and shall wail for the violence of the arm of tyrants. 
    10: And he hath not said: Where is God, who made me, who hath given songs in the night?
    11: Who teacheth us more than the beasts of the earth, and instructeth us more than the fowls of the air. 
    12: There shall they cry, and he will not hear, because of the pride of evil men. 
    13: God therefore will not hear in vain, and the Almighty will look into the causes of every one. 
    14: Yea when thou shalt say: He considereth not: be judged before him, and expect him. 
    15: For he doth not now bring on his fury, neither doth he revenge wickedness exceedingly.
    16: Therefore Job openeth his mouth in vain, and multiplieth words without knowledge.

  Chapter 36.

    1: Eliu also proceeded, and said: 
    2: Suffer me a little, and I will shew thee: for I have yet somewhat to speak in God's behalf. 
    3: I will repeat my knowledge from the beginning, and I will prove my Maker just. 
    4: For indeed my words are without a lie, and perfect knowledge shall be proved to thee. 
    5: God doth not cast away the mighty, whereas he himself also is mighty.
    6: But he saveth not the wicked, and he giveth judgment to the poor. 
    7: He will not take away his eyes from the just, and he placeth kings on the throne for ever, and they are exalted. 
    8: And if they shall be in chains, and be bound with the cords of poverty: 
    9: He shall shew them their works, and their wicked deeds, because they have been violent. 
    10: He also shall open their ear, to correct them: and shall speak, that they may return from iniquity.
    11: If they shall hear and observe, they shall accomplish their days in good, and their years in glory. 
    12: But if they hear not, they shall pass by the sword, and shall be consumed in folly. 
    13: Dissemblers and crafty men prove the wrath of God, neither shall they cry when they are bound. 
    14: Their soul shall die in a storm, and their life among the effeminate. 
    15: He shall deliver the poor out of his distress, and shall open his ear in affliction.
    16: Therefore he shall set thee at large out of the narrow mouth, and which hath no foundation under it: and the rest of thy table shall be full of fatness. 
    17: Thy cause hath been judged as that of the wicked, cause and judgment thou shalt recover. 
    18: Therefore let not anger overcome thee to oppress any man: neither let multitude of gifts turn thee aside. 
    19: Lay down thy greatness without tribulation, and all the mighty of strength. 
    20: Prolong not the night that people may come up for them.
    21: Beware thou turn not aside to iniquity: for this thou hast begun to follow after misery. 
    22: Behold, God is high in his strength, and none is like him among the lawgivers. 
    23: Who can search out his ways? or who can say to him: Thou has wrought iniquity? 
    24: Remember that thou knowest not his work, concerning which men have sung. 
    25: All men see him, every one beholdeth afar off.
    26: Behold, God is great, exceeding our knowledge: the number of his years is inestimable. 
    27: He lifteth up the drops of rain, and poureth out showers like floods: 
    28: Which flow from the clouds that cover all above. 
    29: If he will spread out clouds as his tent, 
    30: And lighten with his light from above, he shall cover also the ends of the sea.
    31: For by these he judgeth people, and giveth food to many mortals. 
    32: In his hands he hideth the light, and commandeth it to come again. 
    33: He sheweth his friend concerning it, that it is his possession, and that he may come up to it.

End of day 141.