Day 91:

Reading 1-Chronicles, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: And all Israel was numbered: and the sum of them was written in the book of the kings of Israel, and Juda: and they were carried away to Babylon for their transgression. 
    2: Now the first that dwelt in their possessions, and in their cities, were the Israelites, and the priests, and the Levites, and the Nathineans. 
    3: And in Jerusalem dwelt of the children of Juda, and of the children of Benjamin, and of the children of Ephraim, and of Manasses. 
    4: Othei the son of Ammiud, the son of Amri, the son of Omrai, the son of Bonni, of the sons of Phares the son of Juda. 
    5: And of Siloni: Asaia the firstborn, and his sons.
    6: And of the sons of Zara: Jehuel, and their brethren, six hundred and ninety. 
    7: And of the sons of Benjamin: Sale the son of Mosollam, the son of Oduia, the son of Asana: 
    8: And Jobania the son of Jeroham: and Ela the son of Ozi, the son of Mochori: and Mosallam the son of Saphatias, the son of Rahuel, the son of Jebania: 
    9: And their brethren by their families, nine hundred and fifty-six. All these were heads of their families, by the houses of their fathers. 
    10: And of the priests: Jedaia, Joiarib, and Jachin:
    11: And Azarias the son of Helcias, the son of Mosollam, the son of Sadoc, the son of Maraioth, the son of Achitob, high priest of the house of God. 
    12: And Adaias the son of Jeroham, the son of Phassur, the son of Melchias, and Maasai the son of Adiel, the son of Jezra, the son of Mosollam, the son of Mosollamith, the son of Emmer. 
    13: And their brethren heads in their families a thousand seven hundred and threescore, very strong and able men for the work of the ministry in the house of God. 
    14: And of the Levites: Semeia the son of Hassub the son of Ezricam, the son of Hasebia of the sons of Merari. 
    15: And Bacbacar the carpenter, and Galal, and Mathania the son of Micha, the son of Zechri the son of Asaph:
    16: And Obdia the son of Semeia, the son of Galal, the son of Idithum: and Barachia the son of Asa, the son of Elcana, who dwelt in the suburbs of Netophati. 
    17: And the porters were Sellum, and Accub, and Telmon, and Ahiman: and their brother Sellum was the prince, 
    18: Until that time, in the king's gate eastward, the sons of Levi waited by their turns. 
    19: But Sellum the son of Core, the son of Abiasaph, the son of Core, with his brethren and his father's house, the Corites were over the works of the service, keepers of the gates of the tabernacle: and their families in turns were keepers of the entrance of the camp of the Lord. 
    20: And Phinees the son of Eleazar, was their prince before the Lord,
    21: And Zacharias the son of Mosollamia, was porter of the gate of the tabernacle of the testimony: 
    22: All these that were chosen to be porters at the gates, were two hundred and twelve: and they mere registered in their proper towns: whom David and Samuel the seer appointed in their trust. 
    23: As well them as their sons, to keep the gates of the house of the Lord, and the tabernacle by their turns. 
    24: In four quarters were the porters: that is to say, toward the east, and west, and north, and south. 
    25: And their brethren dwelt in villages, and came upon their sabbath days from time to time.
    26: To these four Levites were committed the whole number of the porters, and they were over the chambers, and treasures, of the house of the Lord. 
    27: And they abode in their watches round about the temple of the Lord: that when it was time, they might open the gates in the morning. 
    28: And some of their stock had the charge of the vessels for the ministry: for the vessels were both brought in and carried out by number. 
    29: Some of them also had the instruments of the sanctuary committed unto them, and the charge of the fine flour, and wine, and oil, and frankincense, and spices. 
    30: And the sons of the priests made the ointments of the spices.
    31: And Mathathias a Levite, the firstborn of Sellum the Corite, was overseer of such things as were fried in the fryingpan. 
    32: And some of the sons of Caath their brethren, were over the leaves of proposition, to prepare always new for every sabbath. 
    33: These are the chief of the singing men of the families of the Levites, who dwelt in the chambers, by the temple, that they might serve continually day and night in their ministry. 
    34: The heads of the Levites, princes in their families, abode in Jerusalem. 
    35: And in Gabaon dwelt Jehiel the father of Gabaon, and the name of hill wife was Maacha:
    36: His firstborn son Abdon, and Sur, and Cis, and Baal, and Ner, and Nadab, 
    37: Gedor also, and Ahio, and Zacharias, and Macelloth. 
    38: And Macelloth beget Samaan: these dwelt over against their brethren in Jerusalem, with their brethren. 
    39: Now Ner beget Cia: and Cis begot Saul: and Saul beget Jonathan and Melchisua, and Abinadab, and Esbaal. 
    40: And the son of Jonathan, was Meribbaal: and Meribbaal beget Micha.
    41: And the sons of Micha, were Phithon, and Melech, and Tharaa, and Ahaz. 
    42: And Ahaz beget Jara, and Jara beget Alamath, and Azmoth, and Zamri. And Zamri beget Mesa. 
    43: And Mesa beget Banaa: whose son Raphaia beget Elasa: of whom was born Asel. 
    44: And heel had six sons whose names are, Ezricam, Bochru, Ismahel, Saria, Obdia, Hanan: these are the sons of Asel.

  Chapter 10.

    1: Now the Philistines fought against Israel, and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down wounded in mount Gelboe. 
    2: And the Philistines drew near pursuing after Saul, and his sons, and they killed Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Melchisua the sons of Saul. 
    3: And the battle grew hard against Saul, and the archers reached him, and wounded him with arrows. 
    4: And Saul said to his armourbearer: Draw thy sword, and kill me: lest these uncircumcised come, and mock me. But his armourbearer would not, for he was struck with fear: so Saul took his sword, and fell upon it. 
    5: And when his armourbearer saw it, to wit, that Saul was dead, he also fell upon his sword and died.
    6: So Saul died, and his three sons, and all his house fell together. 
    7: And when the men of Israel, that dwelt in the plains, saw this, they fled: and Saul and his sons being dead, they forsook their cities, and were scattered up and down: and the Philistines came, and dwelt in them. 
    8: And the next day the Philistines taking away the spoils of them that were slain, found Saul and his sons lying on mount Gelboe. 
    9: And when they had stripped him, and cut off his head, and taken away his armour, they sent it into their land, to be carried about, and shewn in the temples of the idols and to the people. 
    10: And his armour they dedicated in the temple of their god, and his head they fastened up in the temple of Dagon.
    11: And when the men of Jabes Galaad had heard this, to wit, all that the Philistines had done to Saul, 
    12: All the valiant men of them arose, and took the bodies of Saul and of his sons, and brought them to Jabes, and buried their bones under the oak that was in Jabes, and they fasted seven days. 
    13: So Saul died for his iniquities, because he transgressed the commandment of the Lord, which he had commanded, and kept it not: and moreover consulted also a witch, 
    14: And trusted not is the Lord: therefore he slew him, and transferred his kingdom to David the son of Isai.

  Chapter 11.

    1: Then all Israel gathered themselves to David in Hebron, saying: We are thy bone, and thy flesh. 
    2: Yesterday also, and the day before when Saul was king, thou wast he that leddest out and broughtest in Israel: for the Lord thy God said to thee: Thou shalt feed my people Israel, and thou shalt; be ruler over them. 
    3: So all the ancients of Israel came to the king to Hebron, and David made a covenant with them before the Lord: and they anointed him king over Israel, according to the word of the Lord which he spoke in the hand of Samuel. 
    4: And David and all Israel went to Jerusalem, which is Jebus, where the Jebusites were the inhabitants of the land. 
    5: And the inhabitants of Jebus said to David: Thou shalt not come in here. But David took the castle of Sion, which is the city of David.
    6: And he said: Whosoever shall first strike the Jebusites, shall be the head and chief captain. And Joab the son of Sarvia went up first, and was made the general. 
    7: And David dwelt in the castle, and therefore it was called the city of David. 
    8: And he built the city round about from Mello all round, and Joab built the rest of the city. 
    9: And David went on growing and increasing, and the Lord of hosts was with him. 
    10: These are the chief of the valiant men of David, who helped him to be made king over all Israel, according to the word of the Lord, which he spoke to Israel.
    11: And this is the number of the heroes of David: Jesbaam the son of Hachamoni the chief among the thirty: he lifted up his spear against three hundred wounded by him at one time. 
    12: And after him was Eleazar his uncle's son the Ahohite, who was one of the three mighties. 
    13: He was with David in Phesdomim, when the Philistines were gathered to that place to battle: and the field of that country was full of barley, and the people fled from before the Philistines. 
    14: But these men stood in the midst of the field, and defended it: and they slew the Philistines, and the Lord gave a great deliverance to his people. 
    15: And three of the thirty captains went down to the rock, wherein David was, to the cave of Odollam, when the Philistines encamped in the valley of Raphaim.
    16: And David was in a hold, and the garrison of the Philistines in Bethlehem. 
    17: And David longed, and said: O that some man would give me water of the cistern of Bethlehem, which is in the gate. 
    18: And these three broke through the midst of the camp of the Philistines, and drew water out of the cistern of Bethlehem, which was in the gate, and brought it to David to drink: and he would not drink of it, but rather offered it to the Lord, 
    19: Saying: God forbid that I should do this in the sight of my God, and should drink the blood of these men: for with the danger of their lives they have brought me the water. And therefore he would not drink. These things did the three most valiant. 
    20: And Abisai the brother of Joab, he was chief of three, and he lifted up his spear against three hundred whom he slew, and he was renowned among the three,
    21: And illustrious among the second three, and their captain: but yet he attained not to the first three. 
    22: Banaias the son of Joiada, a most valiant man, of Cabseel, who had done many acts: he slew the two ariels of Moab: and he went down, and killed a lion in the midst of a pit in the time of snow. 
    23: And he slew an Egyptian, whose stature was of five cubits, and who had a spear like a weaver's beam: and he went down to him with a staff, and plucked away the spear, that he held in his hand, and slew him with his own spear. 
    24: These things did Banaias the son of Joiada, who was renowned among the three valiant ones, 
    25: And the first among the thirty, but yet to the three he attained not: and David made him of his council.
    26: Moreover the most valiant men of the army, were Asahel brother of Joab, and Elchanan the son of his uncle of Bethlehem, 
    27: Sammoth an Arorite, Helles a Phalonite, 
    28: Ira the son of Acces a Thecuite, Abiezer an Anathothite, 
    29: Sobbochai a Husathite, Ilai an Ahohite, 
    30: Maharai a Netophathite, Heled the son of Baana a Netophathite,
    31: Ethai the son of Ribai of Gabaath of the sons of Benjamin, Banal a Pharathonite, 
    32: Hurai of the torrent Gaas, Abiel an Arbathite, Azmoth a Bauramite, Eliaba a Salabonite, 
    33: The sons of Assem a, Gezonite, Jonathan the son of Sage an Ararite, 
    34: Ahiam the son of Sachar an Ararite, 
    35: Eliphal the son of Ur,
    36: Hepher a Mecherathite, Ahia a Phelonite, 
    37: Hesro a Carmelite, Naarai the son of Azbai, 
    38: Joel the brother of Nathan, Mibahar the son of Agarai. 
    39: Selec an Ammonite, Naharai a Berothite, the armourbearer of Joab the son of Sarvia. 
    40: Ira a Jethrite, Gareb a Jethrite,
    41: Urias a Hethite, Zabad the son of Oholi, 
    42: Adina the son of Siza a Rubenite the prince of the Rubenites, and thirty with him: 
    43: Hanan the son of Maacha, and Josaphat a Mathanite, 
    44: Ozia an Astarothite, Samma, and Jehiel the sons of Hotham an Arorite, 
    45: Jedihel the son of Zamri, and Jobs his brother a Thosaite,
    46: Eliel a Mithumite, and Jeribai, and Josaia the sons of Elnaim, and Jethma a Moabite, Eliel, and Obed, and Jasiel of Masobia.

  Chapter 12.

    1: Now these are they that came to David to Siceleg, while he yet fled from Saul the son of Cia, and they were most valiant and excellent warriors, 
    2: Bending the bow, and using either hand in hurling stones with slings, and shooting arrows: of the brethren of Saul of Benjamin. 
    3: The chief was Ahiezer, and Joas, the sons of Samaa of Gabaath, and Jaziel, and Phallet the sons of Azmoth, and Beracha, and Jehu an Anathothite. 
    4: And Samaias of Gabaon, the stoutest amongst the thirty and over the thirty; Jeremias, and Jeheziel, and Johanan, and Jezabad of Gaderoth; 
    5: And Eluzai, and Jerimuth, and Baalia, and Samaria, and Saphatia the Haruphite;
    6: Elcana, and Jesia, and Azareel, and Joezer, and Jesbaam of Carehim: 
    7: And Joela, and Zabadia the sons of Jeroham of Gedor. 
    8: From Gaddi also there went over to David, when he lay hid in the wilderness most valiant men, and excellent warriors, holding shield and spear: whose faces were like the faces of a lion, and they were swift like the roebucks on the mountains. 
    9: Ezer the chief, Obdias the second, Eliab the third, 
    10: Masmana the fourth, Jeremias the fifth.
    11: Ethi the sixth, Eliel the seventh, 
    12: Johanan the eighth, Elzebad the ninth, 
    13: Jerenias the tenth, Machbani the eleventh, 
    14: These were of the sons of Gad, captains of the army: the least of them was captain over a hundred soldiers, and the greatest over a thousand. 
    15: These are they who passed over the Jordan in the first month, when it is used to how over its banks: and they put to flight all that dwelt in the valleys both toward the east and toward the west.
    16: And there came also of the men of Benjamin, and of Juda to the hold, in which David abode. 
    17: And David went out to meet them, and said: If you are come peaceably to me to help me, let my heart be joined to you: but if you plot against me for my enemies whereas I have no iniquity in my hands, let the God of our fathers see, and judge. 
    18: But the spirit came upon Amasai the chief among thirty, and he said: We are thine, O David, and for thee, O son of Isai: peace, peace be to thee, and peace to thy helpers. For thy God helpeth thee. So David received them, and made them captains of the band. 
    19: And there were some of Manasses that went over to David, when he came with the Philistines against Saul to fight: but he did not fight with them: because the lords of the Philistines taking counsel sent him back, saying: With the danger of our heads he will return to his master Saul. 
    20: So when he went back to Siceleg, there fled to him of Manasses, Ednas and Jozabad, and Jedihel, and Michael, and Ednas, and Jozabad, and Eliu, and Salathi, captains of thousands in Manasses.
    21: These helped David against the rovers: for they were all most valiant men, and were made commanders in the army. 
    22: Moreover day by day there came some to David to help him till they became a great number, like the army of God. 
    23: And this is the number of the chiefs of the army who came to David, when he was in Hebron, to transfer to him the kingdom of Saul, according to the word of the Lord. 
    24: The sons of Juda bearing shield and spear, six thousand eight hundred well appointed to war. 
    25: Of the sons of Simeon valiant men for war, seven thousand one hundred.
    26: Of the sons of Levi, four thousand six hundred. 
    27: And Joiada prince of the race of Aaron, and with him three thousand seven hundred. 
    28: Sadoc also a young man of excellent disposition, and the house of his father, twenty-two principal men. 
    29: And of the sons of Benjamin the brethren of Saul, three thousand: for hitherto a great part of them followed the house of Saul. 
    30: And of the sons of Ephraim twenty thousand eight hundred, men of great valour renowned in their kindreds.
    31: And of the half tribe of Manasses, eighteen thousand, every one by their names, came to make David king. 
    32: Also of the sons of Issachar men of understanding, that knew all times to order what Israel should do, two hundred principal men: and all the rest of the tribe followed their counsel. 
    33: And of Zabulon such as went forth to battle, and stood in array well appointed with armour for war, there came fifty thousand to his aid, with no double heart. 
    34: And of Nephtali, a thousand leaders: and with them seven and thirty thousand, furnished with shield and spear. 
    35: Of Dan also twenty-eight thousand six hundred prepared for battle.
    36: And of Aser forty thousand going forth to fight, and challenging in battle. 
    37: And on the other side of the Jordan of the sons of Ruben, and of Gad, and of the half of the tribe of Manasses a hundred and twenty thousand, furnished with arms for war. 
    38: All these men of war well appointed to fight, came with a perfect heart to Hebron, to make David king over all Israel: and all the rest also of Israel, were of one heart to make David king. 
    39: And they were there with David three days eating and drinking: for their brethren had prepared for them. 
    40: Moreover they that were near them even as far as Issachar, and Zabulon, and Nephtali, brought leaves on asses, and on camels, and on mules, and on oxen, to eat: meal, figs, raisins, wine, oil, and oxen, and sheep in abundance, for there was joy in Israel.

End of day 91.