Day 170:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['105', '106', '107', '108']:

  Chapter 105.

    1: Alleluia. Give glory to the Lord, for he is good: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
    2: Who shall declare the powers of the Lord? who shall set forth all his praises? 
    3: Blessed are they that keep judgment, and do justice at all times. 
    4: Remember us, O Lord, in the favour of thy people: visit us with thy salvation. 
    5: That we may see the good of thy chosen, that we may rejoice in the joy of thy nation: that thou mayst be praised with thy inheritance.
    6: We have sinned with our fathers: we have acted unjustly, we have wrought iniquity. 
    7: Our fathers understood not thy wonders in Egypt: they remembered not the multitude of thy mercies: And they provoked to wrath going up to the sea, even the Red Sea. 
    8: And he saved them for his own name's sake: that he might make his power known. 
    9: And he rebuked the Red Sea, and it was dried up: and he led them through the depths, as in a wilderness. 
    10: And he saved them from the hand of them that hated them: and he redeemed them from the hand of the enemy.
    11: And the water covered them that afflicted them: there was not one of them left. 
    12: And they believed his words: and they sang his praises. 
    13: They had quickly done, they forgot his works: and they waited not for his counsels. 
    14: And they coveted their desire in the desert: and they tempted God in the place without water. 
    15: And he gave them their request: and sent fulness into their souls.
    16: And they provoked Moses in the camp, Aaron the holy one of the Lord. 
    17: The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan: and covered the congregation of Abiron. 
    18: And a fire was kindled in their congregation: the flame burned the wicked. 
    19: They made also a calf in Horeb: and they adored the graven thing. 
    20: And they changed their glory into the likeness of a calf that eateth grass.
    21: They forgot God, who saved them, who had done great things in Egypt, 
    22: Wondrous works in the land of Cham: terrible things in the Red Sea. 
    23: And he said that he would destroy them: had not Moses his chosen stood before him in the breach: To turn away his wrath, lest he should destroy them. 
    24: And they set at nought the desirable land. They believed not his word, 
    25: And they murmured in their tents: they hearkened not to the voice of the Lord.
    26: And he lifted up his hand over them: to overthrow them in the desert; 
    27: And to cast down their seed among the nations, and to scatter them in the countries. 
    28: They also were initiated to Beelphegor: and ate the sacrifices of the dead. 
    29: And they provoked him with their inventions: and destruction was multiplied among them. 
    30: Then Phinees stood up, and pacified him: and the slaughter ceased.
    31: And it was reputed to him unto justice, to generation and generation for evermore. 
    32: They provoked him also at the waters of contradiction: and Moses was afflicted for their sakes: 
    33: Because they exasperated his spirit. And he distinguished with his lips. 
    34: They did not destroy the nations of which the Lord spoke unto them. 
    35: And they were mingled among the heathens, and learned their works:
    36: And served their idols, and it became a stumblingblock to them. 
    37: And they sacrificed their sons, and their daughters to devils. 
    38: And they shed innocent blood: the blood of their sons and of their daughters which they sacrificed to the idols of Chanaan. And the land was polluted with blood, 
    39: And was defiled with their works: and they went aside after their own inventions. 
    40: And the Lord was exceedingly angry with his people: and he abhorred his inheritance.
    41: And he delivered them into the hands of the nations: and they that hated them had dominion over them. 
    42: And their enemies afflicted them: and they were humbled under their hands: 
    43: Many times did he deliver them. But they provoked him with their counsel: and they were brought low by their iniquities. 
    44: And he saw when they were in tribulation: and he heard their prayer. 
    45: And he was mindful of his covenant: and repented according to the multitude of his mercies.
    46: And he gave them unto mercies, in the sight of all those that had made them captives. 
    47: Save us, O Lord, our God: and gather us from among nations: That we may give thanks to thy holy name, and may glory in thy praise. 
    48: Blessed be the Lord the God of Israel, from everlasting to everlasting: and let all the people say: So be it, so be it.

  Chapter 106.

    1: Give glory to the Lord, for he is good: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
    2: Let them say so that have been redeemed by the Lord, whom he hath redeemed from the hand of the enemy: and gathered out of the countries. 
    3: From the rising and the setting of the sun, from the north and from the sea. 
    4: They wandered in a wilderness, in a place without water: they found not the way of a city for their habitation. 
    5: They were hungry and thirsty: their soul fainted in them.
    6: And they cried to the Lord in their tribulation: and he delivered them out of their distresses. 
    7: And he led them into the right way: that they might go to a city of habitation. 
    8: Let the mercies of the Lord give glory to him: and his wonderful works to the children of men. 
    9: For he hath satisfied the empty soul, and hath filled the hungry soul with good things. 
    10: Such as sat in darkness and in the shadow of death: bound in want and in iron.
    11: Because they had exasperated the words of God: and provoked the counsel of the most High: 
    12: And their heart was humbled with labours: they were weakened, and their was none to help them. 
    13: Then they cried to the Lord in their affliction: and he delivered them out of their distresses. 
    14: And he brought them out of darkness, and the shadow of death; and broke their bonds in sunder. 
    15: Let the mercies of the Lord give glory to him, and his wonderful works to the children of men.
    16: Because he hath broken gates of brass, and burst the iron bars. 
    17: He took them out of the way of their iniquity: for they were brought low for their injustices. 
    18: Their soul abhorred all manner of meat: and they drew nigh even to the gates of death. 
    19: And they cried to the Lord in their affliction: and he delivered them out of their distresses. 
    20: He sent his word, and healed them: and delivered them from their destructions.
    21: Let the mercies of the Lord give glory to him: and his wonderful works to the children of men. 
    22: And let them sacrifice the sacrifice of praise: and declare his works with joy. 
    23: They that go down to the sea in ships, doing business in the great waters: 
    24: These have seen the works of the Lord, and his wonders in the deep. 
    25: He said the word, and there arose a storm of wind: and the waves thereof were lifted up.
    26: They mount up to the heavens, and they go down to the depths: their soul pined away with evils. 
    27: They were troubled, and reeled like a drunken man; and all their wisdom was swallowed up. 
    28: And they cried to the Lord in their affliction: and he brought them out of their distresses. 
    29: And he turned the storm into a breeze: and its waves were still. 
    30: And they rejoiced because they were still: and he brought them to the haven which they wished for.
    31: Let the mercies of the Lord give glory to him, and his wonderful works to the children of men. 
    32: And let them exalt him in the church of the people: and praise him in the chair of the ancients. 
    33: He hath turned rivers into a wilderness: and the sources of water into dry ground: 
    34: A fruitful land into barrenness, for the wickedness of them that dwell therein. 
    35: He hath turned a wilderness into pools of water, and a dry land into water springs.
    36: And hath placed there the hungry; and they made a city for their habitation. 
    37: And they sowed fields, and planted vineyards: and they yielded fruit of birth. 
    38: And he blessed them, and they were multiplied exceedingly: and their cattle he suffered not to decrease. 
    39: Then they were brought to be few: and they were afflicted through the trouble of evils and sorrow. 
    40: Contempt was poured forth upon their princes: and he caused them to wander where there was no passing, and out of the way.
    41: And he helped the poor out of poverty: and made him families like a flock of sheep. 
    42: The just shall see, and shall rejoice, and all iniquity shall stop their mouth. 
    43: Who is wise, and will keep these things: and will understand the mercies of the Lord?

  Chapter 107.

    1: A canticle of a psalm for David himself. 
    2: My heart is ready, O God, my heart is ready: I will sing, and will give praise, with my glory. 
    3: Arise, my glory; arise, psaltery and harp: I will arise in the morning early. 
    4: I will praise thee, O Lord, among the people: and I will sing unto thee among the populations. 
    5: For thy mercy is great above the heavens: and thy truth even unto the clouds.
    6: Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens, and thy glory over all the earth: 
    7: That thy beloved may be delivered. Save with thy right hand and hear me. 
    8: God hath spoken in his holiness. I will rejoice, and I will divide Sichem and I will mete out the vale of tabernacles. 
    9: Galaad is mine, and Manasses is mine and Ephraim the protection of my head. Juda is my king: 
    10: Moab the pot of my hope. Over Edom I will stretch out my shoe: the aliens are become my friends.
    11: Who will bring me into the strong city? who will lead me into Edom? 
    12: Wilt not thou, O God, who hast cast us off? and wilt not thou, O God, go forth with our armies? 
    13: O grant us help from trouble: for vain is the help of man. 
    14: Through God we shall do mightily: and he will bring our enemies to nothing.

  Chapter 108.

    1: Unto the end, a psalm for David. 
    2: O God, be not thou silent in my praise: for the mouth of the wicked and the mouth of the deceitful man is opened against me. 
    3: They have spoken against me with deceitful tongues; and they have compassed me about with words of hatred; and have fought against me without cause. 
    4: Instead of making me a return of love, they detracted me: but I gave myself to prayer. 
    5: And they repaid me evil for good: and hatred for my love.
    6: Set thou the sinner over him: and may the devil stand at his right hand. 
    7: When he is judged, may he go out condemned; and may his prayer be turned to sin. 
    8: May his days be few: and his bishopric let another take. 
    9: May his children be fatherless, and his wife a widow. 
    10: Let his children be carried about vagabonds, and beg; and let them be cast out of their dwellings.
    11: May the usurer search all his substance: and let strangers plunder his labours. 
    12: May there be none to help him: nor none to pity his fatherless offspring. 
    13: May his posterity be cut off; in one generation may his name be blotted out. 
    14: May the iniquity of his fathers be remembered in the sight of the Lord: and let not the sin of his mother be blotted out. 
    15: May they be before the Lord continually, and let the memory of them perish from the earth:
    16: because he remembered not to shew mercy, 
    17: But persecuted the poor man and the beggar; and the broken in heart, to put him to death. 
    18: And he loved cursing, and it shall come unto him: and he would not have blessing, and it shall be far from him. And he put on cursing, like a garment: and it went in like water into his entrails, and like oil in his bones. 
    19: May it be unto him like a garment which covereth him; and like a girdle with which he is girded continually. 
    20: This is the work of them who detract me before the Lord; and who speak evils against my soul.
    21: But thou, O Lord, do with me for thy name's sake: because thy mercy is sweet. Do thou deliver me, 
    22: for I am poor and needy, and my heart is troubled within me. 
    23: I am taken away like the shadow when it declineth: and I am shaken off as locusts. 
    24: My knees are weakened through fasting: and my flesh is changed for oil. 
    25: And I am become a reproach to them: they saw me and they shaked their heads,
    26: Help me, O Lord my God; save me according to thy mercy. 
    27: And let them know that this is thy hand: and that thou, O Lord, hast done it. 
    28: They will curse and thou will bless: let them that rise up against me be confounded: but thy servant shall rejoice. 
    29: Let them that detract me be clothed with shame: and let them be covered with their confusion as with a double cloak. 
    30: I will give great thanks to the Lord with my mouth: and in the midst of many I will praise him.
    31: Because he hath stood at the right hand of the poor, to save my soul from persecutors.

End of day 170.