Day 301:

Reading John, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. 
    2: The same was in the beginning with God. 
    3: All things were made by him: and without him was made nothing that was made. 
    4: In him was life, and the life was the light of men. 
    5: And the light shineth in darkness, and the darkness did not comprehend it.
    6: There was a man sent from God, whose name was John. 
    7: This man came for a witness, to give testimony of the light, that all men might believe through him. 
    8: He was not the light, but was to give testimony of the light. 
    9: That was the true light, which enlighteneth every man that cometh into this world. 
    10: He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not.
    11: He came unto his own, and his own received him not. 
    12: But as many as received him, he gave them power to be made the sons of God, to them that believe in his name. 
    13: Who are born, not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. 
    14: And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we saw his glory, the glory as it were of the only begotten of the Father,) full of grace and truth. 
    15: John beareth witness of him, and crieth out, saying: This was he of whom I spoke: He that shall come after me, is preferred before me: because he was before me.
    16: And of his fulness we all have received, and grace for grace. 
    17: For the law was given by Moses; grace and truth came by Jesus Christ. 
    18: No man hath seen God at any time: the only begotten Son who is in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared him. 
    19: And this is the testimony of John, when the Jews sent from Jerusalem priests and Levites to him, to ask him: Who art thou? 
    20: And he confessed, and did not deny: and he confessed: I am not the Christ.
    21: And they asked him: What then? Art thou Elias? And he said: I am not. Art thou the prophet? And he answered: No. 
    22: They said therefore unto him: Who art thou, that we may give an answer to them that sent us? What sayest thou of thyself? 
    23: He said: I am the voice of one crying out in the wilderness, make straight the way of the Lord, as said the prophet Isaias. 
    24: And they that were sent, were of the Pharisees. 
    25: And they asked him, and said to him: Why then dost thou baptize, if thou be not Christ, nor Elias, nor the prophet?
    26: John answered them, saying: I baptize with water; but there hath stood one in the midst of you, whom you know not. 
    27: The same is he that shall come after me, who is preferred before me: the latchet of whose shoe I am not worthy to loose. 
    28: These things were done in Bethania, beyond the Jordan, where John was baptizing. 
    29: The next day, John saw Jesus coming to him, and he saith: Behold the Lamb of God, behold him who taketh away the sin of the world. 
    30: This is he, of whom I said: After me there cometh a man, who is preferred before me: because he was before me.
    31: And I knew him not, but that he may be made manifest in Israel, therefore am I come baptizing with water. 
    32: And John gave testimony, saying: I saw the Spirit coming down, as a dove from heaven, and he remained upon him. 
    33: And I knew him not; but he who sent me to baptize with water, said to me: He upon whom thou shalt see the Spirit descending, and remaining upon him, he it is that baptizeth with the Holy Ghost. 
    34: And I saw, and I gave testimony, that this is the Son of God. 
    35: The next day again John stood, and two of his disciples.
    36: And beholding Jesus walking, he saith: Behold the Lamb of God. 
    37: And the two disciples heard him speak, and they followed Jesus. 
    38: And Jesus turning, and seeing them following him, saith to them: What seek you? Who said to him, Rabbi, (which is to say, being interpreted, Master,) where dwellest thou? 
    39: He saith to them: Come and see. They came, and saw where he abode, and they stayed with him that day: now it was about the tenth hour. 
    40: And Andrew, the brother of Simon Peter, was one of the two who had heard of John, and followed him.
    41: He findeth first his brother Simon, and saith to him: We have found the Messias, which is, being interpreted, the Christ. 
    42: And he brought him to Jesus. And Jesus looking upon him, said: Thou art Simon the son of Jona: thou shalt be called Cephas, which is interpreted Peter. 
    43: On the following day, he would go forth into Galilee, and he findeth Philip. And Jesus saith to him: Follow me. 
    44: Now Philip was of Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter. 
    45: Philip findeth Nathanael, and saith to him: We have found him of whom Moses in the law, and the prophets did write, Jesus the son of Joseph of Nazareth.
    46: And Nathanael said to him: Can any thing of good come from Nazareth? Philip saith to him: Come and see. 
    47: Jesus saw Nathanael coming to him: and he saith of him: Behold an Israelite indeed, in whom there is no guile. 
    48: Nathanael saith to him: Whence knowest thou me? Jesus answered, and said to him: Before that Philip called thee, when thou wast under the fig tree, I saw thee. 
    49: Nathanael answered him, and said: Rabbi, thou art the Son of God, thou art the King of Israel. 
    50: Jesus answered, and said to him: Because I said unto thee, I saw thee under the fig tree, thou believest: greater things than these shalt thou see.
    51: And he saith to him: Amen, amen I say to you, you shall see the heaven opened, and the angels of God ascending and descending upon the Son of man.

  Chapter 2.

    1: And the third day, there was a marriage in Cana of Galilee: and the mother of Jesus was there. 
    2: And Jesus also was invited, and his disciples, to the marriage. 
    3: And the wine failing, the mother of Jesus saith to him: They have no wine. 
    4: And Jesus saith to her: Woman, what is that to me and to thee? my hour is not yet come. 
    5: His mother saith to the waiters: Whatsoever he shall say to you, do ye.
    6: Now there were set there six waterpots of stone, according to the manner of the purifying of the Jews, containing two or three measures apiece. 
    7: Jesus saith to them: Fill the waterpots with water. And they filled them up to the brim. 
    8: And Jesus saith to them: Draw out now, and carry to the chief steward of the feast. And they carried it. 
    9: And when the chief steward had tasted the water made wine, and knew not whence it was, but the waiters knew who had drawn the water; the chief steward calleth the bridegroom, 
    10: And saith to him: Every man at first setteth forth good wine, and when men have well drunk, then that which is worse. But thou hast kept the good wine until now.
    11: This beginning of miracles did Jesus in Cana of Galilee; and manifested his glory, and his disciples believed in him. 
    12: After this he went down to Capharnaum, he and his mother, and his brethren, and his disciples: and they remained there not many days. 
    13: And the pasch of the Jews was at hand, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. 
    14: And he found in the temple them that sold oxen and sheep and doves, and the changers of money sitting. 
    15: And when he had made, as it were, a scourge of little cords, he drove them all out of the temple, the sheep also and the oxen, and the money of the changers he poured out, and the tables he overthrew.
    16: And to them that sold doves he said: Take these things hence, and make not the house of my Father a house of traffic. 
    17: And his disciples remembered, that it was written: The zeal of thy house hath eaten me up. 
    18: The Jews, therefore, answered, and said to him: What sign dost thou shew unto us, seeing thou dost these things? 
    19: Jesus answered, and said to them: Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. 
    20: The Jews then said: Six and forty years was this temple in building; and wilt thou raise it up in three days?
    21: But he spoke of the temple of his body. 
    22: When therefore he was risen again from the dead, his disciples remembered, that he had said this, and they believed the scripture, and the word that Jesus had said. 
    23: Now when he was at Jerusalem, at the pasch, upon the festival day, many believed in his name, seeing his signs which he did. 
    24: But Jesus did not trust himself unto them, for that he knew all men, 
    25: And because he needed not that any should give testimony of man: for he knew what was in man.

  Chapter 3.

    1: And there was a man of the Pharisees, named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews. 
    2: This man came to Jesus by night, and said to him: Rabbi, we know that thou art come a teacher from God; for no man can do these signs which thou dost, unless God be with him. 
    3: Jesus answered, and said to him: Amen, amen I say to thee, unless a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. 
    4: Nicodemus saith to him: How can a man be born when he is old? can he enter a second time into his mother's womb, and be born again? 
    5: Jesus answered: Amen, amen I say to thee, unless a man be born again of water and the Holy Ghost, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God.
    6: That which is born of the flesh, is flesh; and that which is born of the Spirit, is spirit. 
    7: Wonder not, that I said to thee, you must be born again. 
    8: The Spirit breatheth where he will; and thou hearest his voice, but thou knowest not whence he cometh, and whither he goeth: so is every one that is born of the Spirit. 
    9: Nicodemus answered, and said to him: How can these things be done? 
    10: Jesus answered, and said to him: Art thou a master in Israel, and knowest not these things?
    11: Amen, amen I say to thee, that we speak what we know, and we testify what we have seen, and you receive not our testimony. 
    12: If I have spoken to you earthly things, and you believe not; how will you believe, if I shall speak to you heavenly things? 
    13: And no man hath ascended into heaven, but he that descended from heaven, the Son of man who is in heaven. 
    14: And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the desert, so must the Son of man be lifted up: 
    15: That whosoever believeth in him, may not perish; but may have life everlasting.
    16: For God so loved the world, as to give his only begotten Son; that whosoever believeth in him, may not perish, but may have life everlasting. 
    17: For God sent not his Son into the world, to judge the world, but that the world may be saved by him. 
    18: He that believeth in him is not judged. But he that doth not believe, is already judged: because he believeth not in the name of the only begotten Son of God. 
    19: And this is the judgment: because the light is come into the world, and men loved darkness rather than the light: for their works were evil. 
    20: For every one that doth evil hateth the light, and cometh not to the light, that his works may not be reproved.
    21: But he that doth truth, cometh to the light, that his works may be made manifest, because they are done in God. 
    22: After these things Jesus and his disciples came into the land of Judea: and there he abode with them, and baptized. 
    23: And John also was baptizing in Ennon near Salim; because there was much water there; and they came and were baptized. 
    24: For John was not yet cast into prison. 
    25: And there arose a question between some of John's disciples and the Jews concerning purification:
    26: And they came to John, and said to him: Rabbi, he that was with thee beyond the Jordan, to whom thou gavest testimony, behold he baptizeth, and all men come to him. 
    27: John answered, and said: A man cannot receive any thing, unless it be given him from heaven. 
    28: You yourselves do bear me witness, that I said, I am not Christ, but that I am sent before him. 
    29: He that hath the bride, is the bridegroom: but the friend of the bridegroom, who standeth and heareth him, rejoiceth with joy because of the bridegroom's voice. This my joy therefore is fulfilled. 
    30: He must increase, but I must decrease.
    31: He that cometh from above, is above all. He that is of the earth, of the earth he is, and of the earth he speaketh. He that cometh from heaven, is above all. 
    32: And what he hath seen and heard, that he testifieth: and no man receiveth his testimony. 
    33: He that hath received his testimony, hath set to his seal that God is true. 
    34: For he whom God hath sent, speaketh the words of God: for God doth not give the Spirit by measure. 
    35: The Father loveth the Son: and he hath given all things into his hand.
    36: He that believeth in the Son, hath life everlasting; but he that believeth not the Son, shall not see life; but the wrath of God abideth on him.

  Chapter 4.

    1: When Jesus therefore understood that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus maketh more disciples, and baptizeth more than John, 
    2: (Though Jesus himself did not baptize, but his disciples,) 
    3: He left Judea, and went again into Galilee. 
    4: And he was of necessity to pass through Samaria. 
    5: He cometh therefore to a city of Samaria, which is called Sichar, near the land which Jacob gave to his son Joseph.
    6: Now Jacob's well was there. Jesus therefore being wearied with his journey, sat thus on the well. It was about the sixth hour. 
    7: There cometh a woman of Samaria, to draw water. Jesus saith to her: Give me to drink. 
    8: For his disciples were gone into the city to buy meats. 
    9: Then that Samaritan woman saith to him: How dost thou, being a Jew, ask of me to drink, who am a Samaritan woman? For the Jews do not communicate with the Samaritans. 
    10: Jesus answered, and said to her: If thou didst know the gift of God, and who he is that saith to thee, Give me to drink; thou perhaps wouldst have asked of him, and he would have given thee living water.
    11: The woman saith to him: Sir, thou hast nothing wherein to draw, and the well is deep; from whence then hast thou living water? 
    12: Art thou greater than our father Jacob, who gave us the well, and drank thereof himself, and his children, and his cattle? 
    13: Jesus answered, and said to her: Whosoever drinketh of this water, shall thirst again; but he that shall drink of the water that I will give him, shall not thirst for ever: 
    14: But the water that I will give him, shall become in him a fountain of water, springing up into life everlasting. 
    15: The woman saith to him: Sir, give me this water, that I may not thirst, nor come hither to draw.
    16: Jesus saith to her: Go, call thy husband, and come hither. 
    17: The woman answered, and said: I have no husband. Jesus said to her: Thou hast said well, I have no husband: 
    18: For thou hast had five husbands: and he whom thou now hast, is not thy husband. This thou hast said truly. 
    19: The woman saith to him: Sir, I perceive that thou art a prophet. 
    20: Our fathers adored on this mountain, and you say, that at Jerusalem is the place where men must adore.
    21: Jesus saith to her: Woman, believe me, that the hour cometh, when you shall neither on this mountain, nor in Jerusalem, adore the Father. 
    22: You adore that which you know not: we adore that which we know; for salvation is of the Jews. 
    23: But the hour cometh, and now is, when the true adorers shall adore the Father in spirit and in truth. For the Father also seeketh such to adore him. 
    24: God is a spirit; and they that adore him, must adore him in spirit and in truth. 
    25: The woman saith to him: I know that the Messias cometh (who is called Christ). Therefore, when he is come, he will tell us all things.
    26: Jesus saith to her: I am he, who am speaking with thee. 
    27: And immediately his disciples came; and they wondered that he talked with the woman. Yet no man said: What seekest thou? or, why talkest thou with her? 
    28: The woman therefore left her waterpot, and went her way into the city, and saith to the men there: 
    29: Come, and see a man who has told me all things whatsoever I have done. Is not he the Christ? 
    30: They went therefore out of the city, and came unto him.
    31: In the mean time the disciples prayed him, saying: Rabbi, eat. 
    32: But he said to them: I have meat to eat, which you know not. 
    33: The disciples therefore said one to another: Hath any man brought him to eat? 
    34: Jesus saith to them: My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, that I may perfect his work. 
    35: Do you not say, There are yet four months, and then the harvest cometh? Behold, I say to you, lift up your eyes, and see the countries; for they are white already to harvest.
    36: And he that reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth fruit unto life everlasting: that both he that soweth, and he that reapeth, may rejoice together. 
    37: For in this is the saying true: That it is one man that soweth, and it is another that reapeth. 
    38: I have sent you to reap that in which you did not labour: others have laboured, and you have entered into their labours. 
    39: Now of that city many of the Samaritans believed in him, for the word of the woman giving testimony: He told me all things whatsoever I have done. 
    40: So when the Samaritans were come to him, they desired that he would tarry there. And he abode there two days.
    41: And many more believed in him because of his own word. 
    42: And they said to the woman: We now believe, not for thy saying: for we ourselves have heard him, and know that this is indeed the Saviour of the world. 
    43: Now after two days, he departed thence, and went into Galilee. 
    44: For Jesus himself gave testimony that a prophet hath no honour in his own country. 
    45: And when he was come into Galilee, the Galileans received him, having seen all the things he had done at Jerusalem on the festival day; for they also went to the festival day.
    46: He came again therefore into Cana of Galilee, where he made the water wine. And there was a certain ruler, whose son was sick at Capharnaum. 
    47: He having heard that Jesus was come from Judea into Galilee, went to him, and prayed him to come down, and heal his son; for he was at the point of death. 
    48: Jesus therefore said to him: Unless you see signs and wonders, you believe not. 
    49: The ruler saith to him: Lord, come down before that my son die. 
    50: Jesus saith to him: Go thy way; thy son liveth. The man believed the word which Jesus said to him, and went his way.
    51: And as he was going down, his servants met him; and they brought word, saying, that his son lived. 
    52: He asked therefore of them the hour wherein he grew better. And they said to him: Yesterday, at the seventh hour, the fever left him. 
    53: The father therefore knew, that it was at the same hour that Jesus said to him, Thy son liveth; and himself believed, and his whole house. 
    54: This is again the second miracle that Jesus did, when he was come out of Judea into Galilee.

End of day 301.