Day 101:

Reading 2-Chronicles, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: And Josaphat his son reigned in his stead, and grew strong against Israel. 
    2: And he placed numbers of soldiers in all the fortified cities of Juda. And he put garrisons in the land of Juda, and in the cities of Ephraim, which Asa his father had taken. 
    3: And the Lord was with Josaphat, because he walked in the first ways of David his father: and trusted not in Baalim, 
    4: But in the God of his father, and walk in his commandments, and not according to the sins of Israel. 
    5: And the Lord established the kingdom in his hand, and all Juda brought presents to Josaphat: and he acquired immense riches, and much glory.
    6: And when his heart had taken courage for the ways of the Lord, he took away also the high places and the groves out of Juda. 
    7: And in the third year of his reign, he sent of his princes Benhail, and Abdias, and Zacharias, and Nathanael, and Micheas, to teach in the cities of Juda: 
    8: And with them the Levites, Semeias, and Nathanias, and Zabadias, and Asael, and Semiramoth, and Jonathan, and Adonias, and Tobias, and Thobadonias Levites, and with them Elisama, and Joram priests. 
    9: And they taught the people in Juda, having with them the book of the law of the Lord: and they went about all the cities of Juda, and instructed the people. 
    10: And the fear of the Lord came upon all the kingdoms of the lands that were round about Juda, and they durst not make war against Josaphat.
    11: The Philistines also brought presents to Josaphat, and tribute in silver, and the Arabians brought him cattle, seven thousand seven hundred rams, and as many he goats. 
    12: And Josaphat grew, and became exceeding great: and he built in Juda houses like towers, and walled cities. 
    13: And he prepared many works in the cities of Juda: and he had warriors, and valiant men in Jerusalem. 
    14: Of whom this is the number of the houses and families of every one: in Juda captains of the army, Ednas the chief, and with him three hundred thousand most valiant men. 
    15: After him Johanan the captain, and with him two hundred and eighty thousand.
    16: And after him was Amasias the son of Zechri, consecrated to the Lord, and with him were two hundred thousand valiant men. 
    17: After him was Eliada valiant in battle, and with him two hundred thousand armed with bow and shield. 
    18: After him also was Jozabad, and with him a hundred and eighty thousand ready for war. 
    19: All these were at the hand of the king, beside others, whom he had put in the walled cities, in all Juda.

  Chapter 18.

    1: Now Josaphat was rich and very glorious, and was joined by affinity to Achab. 
    2: And he went down to him after some years to Samaria: and Achab at his coming killed sheep and oxen in abundance for him and the people that came with him: and he persuaded him to go up to Ramoth Galaad. 
    3: And Achab king of Israel said to Josaphat king of Juda: Come with me to Ramoth Galaad. And he answered him: Thou art as I am, and my people as thy people, and we will be with thee in the war. 
    4: And Josaphat said to the king of Israel: Inquire, I beseech thee, at present the word of the Lord. 
    5: So the king of Israel gathered together of the prophets four hundred men, and he said to them: Shall we go to Ramoth Galaad to fight, or shall we forbear? But they said: Go up, and God will deliver it into the king's hand.
    6: And Josaphat said: Is there not here a prophet of the Lord, that we may inquire also of him? 
    7: And the king of Israel said to Josaphat: There is one man, of whom we may ask the will of the Lord: but I hate him, for he never prophesieth good to me, but always evil: and it is Micheas the son of Jemla. And Josaphat said: Speak not thus, O king. 
    8: And the king of Israel called one of the eunuchs, and said to him: Call quickly Micheas the son of Jemla. 
    9: Now the king of Israel, and Josaphat king of Juda, both sat on their thrones, clothed in royal robes, and they sat in the open court by the gate of Samaria, and all the prophets prophesied before them. 
    10: And Sedecias the son of Chanaana made him horns of iron, and said: Thus saith the Lord: With these shalt thou push Syria, till thou destroy it.
    11: And all the prophets prophesied in like manner, and said: Go up to Ramoth Galaad, and thou shalt prosper, and the Lord will deliver them into the king's hand. 
    12: And the messenger that went to call Micheas, said to him: Behold the words of all the prophets with one mouth declare good to the king: I beseech thee therefore let not thy word disagree with them, and speak thou also good success. 
    13: And Micheas answered him: As the Lord liveth, whatsoever my God shall say to me, that will I speak. 
    14: So he came to the king: and the king said to him: Micheas, shall we go to Ramoth Galaad to fight, or forbear? And he answered him: Go up, for all shall succeed prosperously, and the enemies shall be delivered into your hands. 
    15: And the king said: I adjure thee again and again to say nothing but the truth to me, in the name of the Lord.
    16: Then he said: I saw all Israel scattered in the mountains, like sheep without a shepherd: and the Lord said: These have no masters: let every man return to his own house in peace. 
    17: And the king of Israel said to Josaphat: Did I not tell thee that this man would not prophesy me any good, but evil? 
    18: Then he said: Hear ye therefore the word of the Lord: I saw the Lord sitting on his throne, and all the army of heaven standing by him on the right hand and on the left. 
    19: And the Lord said: Who shall deceive Achab king of Israel, that he may go up and fall in Ramoth Galaad? And when one spoke in this manner, and another otherwise: 
    20: There came forth a spirit, and stood before the Lord, and said: I will deceive him. And the Lord said to him: By what means wilt thou deceive him?
    21: And he answered: I will go out, and be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets. And the Lord said: Thou shalt deceive, and shalt prevail: go out, and do so. 
    22: Now therefore behold the Lord hath put a spirit of lying in the mouth of all thy prophets, and the Lord hath spoken evil against thee. 
    23: And Sedecias the son of Chanaana came, and struck Micheas on the cheek and said: Which way went the spirit of the Lord from me, to speak to thee? 
    24: And Micheas said: Thou thyself shalt see in that day, when thou shalt go in from chamber to chamber, to hide thyself. 
    25: And the king of Israel commanded, saying: Take Micheas, and carry him to Amen the governor of the city, and to Joas the son of Amelech,
    26: And say: Thus saith the king: Put this fellow in prison, and give him bread and water in a small quantity till I return in peace. 
    27: And Micheas said: If thou return in peace, the Lord hath not spoken by me. And he said: Hear, all ye people. 
    28: So the king of Israel and Josaphat king of Juda went up to Ramoth Galaad. 
    29: And the king of Israel said to Josaphat: I will change my dress, and so I will go to the battle, but put thou on thy own garments. And the king of Israel having changed his dress, went to the battle. 
    30: Now the king of Syria had commanded the captains of his cavalry, saying: Fight ye not with small, or great, but with the king of Israel only.
    31: So when the captains of the cavalry saw Josaphat, they said: This is the king of Israel. And they surrounded him to attack him: but he cried to the Lord, and he helped him, and turned them away from him. 
    32: For when the captains of the cavalry saw, that he was not the king of Israel, they left him. 
    33: And it happened that one of the people shot an arrow at a venture, and struck the king of Israel between the neck and the shoulders, and he said to his chariot man: Turn thy hand, and carry me out of the battle, for I am wounded. 
    34: And the fight was ended that day: but the king of Israel stood in his chariot against the Syrians until the evening, and died at the sunset.

  Chapter 19.

    1: And Josaphat king of Juda returned to his house in peace to Jerusalem. 
    2: And Jehu the son of Hanani the seer met him, and said to him: Thou helpest the ungodly, and thou art joined in friendship with them that hate the Lord, and therefore thou didst deserve indeed the wrath of the Lord: 
    3: But good works are found in thee, because thou hast taken away the groves out of the land of Juda, and hast prepared thy heart to seek the Lord the God of thy fathers. 
    4: And Josaphat dwelt at Jerusalem: and he went out again to the people from Bersabee to mount Ephraim, and brought them back to the Lord the God of their fathers. 
    5: And he set judges of the land in all the fenced cities of Juda, in every place.
    6: And charging the judges, he said: Take heed what you do: for you exercise not the judgment of man, but of the Lord: and whatsoever you judge, it shall redound to you. 
    7: Let the fear of the Lord be with you, and do all things with diligence: for there is no iniquity with the Lord our God, nor respect of persons, nor desire of gifts. 
    8: In Jerusalem also Josaphat appointed Levites, and priests and chiefs of the families of Israel, to judge the judgment and the cause of the Lord for the inhabitants thereof. 
    9: And he charged them, saying: Thus shall you do in the fear of the Lord faithfully, and with a perfect heart. 
    10: Every cause that shall come to you of your brethren, that dwell in their cities, between kindred and kindred, wheresoever there is question concerning the law, the commandment, the ceremonies, the justifications: shew it them, that they may not sin against the Lord, and that wrath may not come upon you and your brethren: and so doing you shall not sin.
    11: And Amarias the priest your high priest shall be chief in the things which regard God: and Zabadias the son of Ismahel, who is ruler in the house of Juda, shall be over those matters which belong to the king's office: and you have before you the Levites for masters, take courage and do diligently, and the Lord will be with you in good things.

  Chapter 20.

    1: After this the children of Moab, and the children of Ammon, and with them of the Ammonites, were gathered together to fight against Josaphat. 
    2: And there came messengers, and told Josaphat, saying: There cometh a great multitude against thee from beyond the sea, and out of Syria, and behold they are in Asasonthamar, which is Engaddi. 
    3: And Josaphat being seized with fear betook himself wholly to pray to the Lord, and he proclaimed a fast for all Juda. 
    4: And Juda gathered themselves together to pray to the Lord: and all came out of their cities to make supplication to him. 
    5: And Josaphat stood in the midst of the assembly of Juda, and Jerusalem, in the house of the Lord before the new court,
    6: And said: O Lord God of our fathers, thou art God in heaven, and rulest over all the kingdoms and nations, in thy hand is strength and power, and no one can resist thee. 
    7: Didst not thou our God kill all the inhabitants of this land before thy people Israel, and gavest it to the seed of Abraham thy friend for ever? 
    8: And they dwelt in it, and built in it a sanctuary to thy name, saying: 
    9: If evils fall upon us, the sword of judgment, or pestilence, or famine, we will stand in thy presence before this house, in which thy name is called upon: and we will cry to thee in our afflictions, and thou wilt hear, and save us. 
    10: Now therefore behold the children of Ammon, and of Moab, and mount Seir, through whose lands thou didst not allow Israel to pass, when they came out of Egypt, but they turned aside from them, and slew them not,
    11: Do the contrary, and endeavour to cast us out of the possession which thou hast delivered to us. 
    12: O our God, wilt thou not then judge them? as for us we have not strength enough, to be able to resist this multitude, which cometh violently upon us. But as we know not what to do, we can only turn our eyes to thee. 
    13: And all Juda stood before the Lord with their little ones, and their wives, and their children. 
    14: And Jahaziel the son of Zacharias, the son of Banaias, the son of Jehiel, the son of Mathanias, a Levite of the sons of Asaph, was there, upon whom the spirit of the Lord came in the midst of the multitude, 
    15: And he said: Attend ye, all Juda, and you that dwell in Jerusalem, and thou king Josaphat: Thus saith the Lord to you: Fear ye not, and be not dismayed at this multitude: for the battle is not yours, but God's.
    16: Tomorrow you shall go down against them: for they will come up by the ascent named Sis, and you shall find them at the head of the torrent, which is over against the wilderness of Jeruel. 
    17: It shall not be you that shall fight, but only stand with confidence, and you shall see the help of the Lord over you, O Juda, and Jerusalem: fear ye not, nor be you dismayed: tomorrow you shall go out against them, and the Lord will be with you. 
    18: Then Josaphat, and Juda, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem fell flat on the ground before the Lord, and adored him. 
    19: And the Levites of the sons of Caath, and of the sons of Core praised the Lord the God of Israel with a loud voice, on high. 
    20: And they rose early in the morning, and went out through the desert of Thecua: and as they were marching, Josaphat standing in the midst of them, said: Hear me, ye men of Juda, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem: believe in the Lord your God, and you shall be secure: believe his prophets, and all things shall succeed well.
    21: And he gave counsel to the people, and appointed the singing men of the Lord, to praise him by their companies, and to go before the army, and with one voice to say: Give glory to the Lord, for his mercy endureth for ever. 
    22: And when they began to sing praises, the Lord turned their ambushments upon themselves, that is to say, of the children of Ammon, and of Moab, and of mount Seir, who were come out to fight against Juda, and they were slain. 
    23: For the children of Ammon, and of Moab, rose up against the inhabitants of mount Seir, to kill and destroy them: and when they had made an end of them, they turned also against one another, and destroyed one another. 
    24: And when Juda came to the watch tower, that looketh toward the desert, they saw afar off all the country, for a great space, full of dead bodies, and that no one was left that could escape death. 
    25: Then Josaphat came, and all the people with him to take away the spoils of the dead, and they found among the dead bodies, stuff of various kinds, and garments, and most precious vessels: and they took them for themselves, insomuch that they could not carry all, nor in three days take away the spoils, the booty was so great.
    26: And on the fourth day they were assembled in the valley of Blessing: for there they blessed the Lord, and therefore they called that place the valley of Blessing until this day. 
    27: And every man of Juda, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem returned, and Josaphat at their head, into Jerusalem with great joy, because the Lord had made them rejoice over their enemies. 
    28: And they came into Jerusalem with psalteries, and harps, and trumpets into the house of the Lord. 
    29: And the fear of the Lord fell upon all the kingdoms of the lands when they heard that the Lord had fought against the enemies of Israel. 
    30: And the kingdom of Josaphat was quiet, and God gave him peace round about.
    31: And Josaphat reigned over Juda, and he was five and thirty years old when he began to reign: and he reigned five and twenty years in Jerusalem: and the name of his mother was Azuba the daughter of Selahi. 
    32: And he walked in the way of his father Asa, and departed not from it, doing the things that were pleasing before the Lord. 
    33: But yet he took not away the high places, and the people had not yet turned their heart to the Lord the God of their fathers. 
    34: But the rest of the acts of Josaphat, first and last, are written in the words of Jehu the son of Hanani, which he digested into the books of the kings of Israel. 
    35: After these things Josaphat king of Juda made friendship with Ochozias king of Israel, whose works were very wicked.
    36: And he was partner with him in making ships, to go to Tharsis: and they made the ships in Asiongaber. 
    37: And Eliezer the son of Dodau of Maresa prophesied to Josaphat, saying: Because thou hast made a league with Ochozias, the Lord hath destroyed thy works, and the ships are broken, and they could not go to Tharsis.

End of day 101.