Day 179:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['141', '142', '143', '144']:

  Chapter 141.

    1: Of understanding for David. A prayer when he was in the cave. 
    2: Kings 24] 
    3: I cried to the Lord with my voice: with my voice I made supplication to the Lord. 
    4: In his sight I pour out my prayer, and before him I declare my trouble: 
    5: When my spirit failed me, then thou newest my paths. In this way wherein I walked, they have hidden a snare for me. 
    6: I looked on my right hand, and beheld, and there was no one that would know me. Flight hath failed me: and there is no one that hath regard to my soul.
    7: I cried to thee, O Lord: I said: Thou art my hope, my portion in the land of the living. 
    8: Attend to my supplication: for I am brought very low. Deliver me from my persecutors; for they are stronger than I. 
    9: Bring my soul out of prison, that I may praise thy name: the just wait for me, until thou reward me.

  Chapter 142.

    1: Hear, O Lord, my prayer: give ear to my supplication in thy truth: hear me in thy justice. 
    2: And enter not into judgment with thy servant: for in thy sight no man living shall be justified. 
    3: For the enemy hath persecuted my soul: he hath brought down my life to the earth. He hath made me to dwell in darkness as those that have been dead of old: 
    4: And my spirit is in anguish within me: my heart within me is troubled. 
    5: I remembered the days of old, I meditated on all thy works: I meditated upon the works of thy hands.
    6: I stretched forth my hands to thee: my soul is as earth without water unto thee. 
    7: Hear me speedily, O Lord: my spirit hath fainted away. Turn not away thy face from me, lest I be like unto them that go down into the pit. 
    8: Cause me to hear thy mercy in the morning; for in thee have I hoped. Make the way known to me, wherein I should walk: for I have lifted up my soul to thee. 
    9: Deliver me from my enemies, O Lord, to thee have I fled: 
    10: Teach me to do thy will, for thou art my God. Thy good spirit shall lead me into the right land:
    11: For thy name's sake, O Lord, thou wilt quicken me in thy justice. Thou wilt bring my soul out of trouble: 
    12: And in thy mercy thou wilt destroy my enemies. And thou wilt cut off all them that afflict my soul: for I am thy servant.

  Chapter 143.

    1: Blessed be the Lord my God, who teacheth my hands to fight, and my fingers to war. 
    2: My mercy, and my refuge: my support, and my deliverer: My protector, and I have hoped in him: who subdueth my people under me. 
    3: Lord, what is man, that thou art made known to him? or the son of man, that thou makest account of him? 
    4: Man is like to vanity: his days pass away like a shadow. 
    5: Lord, bow down thy heavens and descend: touch the mountains and they shall smoke.
    6: Send forth lightning, and thou shalt scatter them: shoot out thy arrows, and thou shalt trouble them. 
    7: Put forth thy hand from on high, take me out, and deliver me from many waters: from the hand of strange children: 
    8: Whose mouth hath spoken vanity: and their right hand is the right hand of iniquity. 
    9: To thee, O God, I will sing a new canticle: on the psaltery and an instrument of ten strings I will sing praises to thee. 
    10: Who givest salvation to kings: who hast redeemed thy servant David from the malicious sword:
    11: Deliver me, And rescue me out of the hand of strange children; whose mouth hath spoken vanity: and their right hand is the right hand of iniquity: 
    12: Whose sons are as new plants in their youth: Their daughters decked out, adorned round about after the similitude of a temple: 
    13: Their storehouses full, flowing out of this into that. Their sheep fruitful in young, abounding in their goings forth: 
    14: Their oxen fat. There is no breach of wall, nor passage, nor crying out in their streets. 
    15: They have called the people happy, that hath these things: but happy is that people whose God is the Lord.

  Chapter 144.

    1: I will extol thee, O God my king: and I will bless thy name for ever; yea, for ever and ever. 
    2: Every day I will bless thee: and I will praise thy name for ever; yea, for ever and ever. 
    3: Great is the Lord, and greatly to be praised: and of his greatness there is no end. 
    4: Generation and generation shall praise thy works: and they shall declare thy power. 
    5: They shall speak of the magnificence of the glory of thy holiness: and shall tell thy wondrous works.
    6: And they shall speak of the might of thy terrible acts: and shall declare thy greatness. 
    7: They shall publish the memory of the abundance of thy sweetness: and shall rejoice in thy justice. 
    8: The Lord is gracious and merciful: patient and plenteous in mercy. 
    9: The Lord is sweet to all: and his tender mercies are over all his works. 
    10: Let all thy works, O lord, praise thee: and let thy saints bless thee.
    11: They shall speak of the glory of thy kingdom: and shall tell of thy power: 
    12: To make thy might known to the sons of men: and the glory of the magnificence of thy kingdom. 
    13: Thy kingdom is a kingdom of all ages: and thy dominion endureth throughout all generations. The Lord is faithful in all his words: and holy in all his works. 
    14: The Lord lifteth up all that fall: and setteth up all that are cast down. 
    15: The eyes of all hope in thee, O Lord: and thou givest them meat in due season.
    16: Thou openest thy hand, and fillest with blessing every living creature. 
    17: The Lord is just in all his ways: and holy in all his works. 
    18: The Lord is nigh unto all them that call upon him: to all that call upon him in truth. 
    19: He will do the will of them that fear him: and he will hear their prayer, and save them. 
    20: The Lord keepeth all them that love him; but all the wicked he will destroy.
    21: My mouth shall speak the praise of the Lord: and let all flesh bless thy holy name for ever; yea, for ever and ever.

End of day 179.