Day 184:

Reading Proverbs, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: Wisdom hath built herself a house, she hath hewn her out seven pillars. 
    2: She hath slain her victims, mingled her wine, and set forth her table. 
    3: She hath sent her maids to invite to the tower, and to the walls of the city: 
    4: Whosoever is a little one, let him come to me. And to the unwise she said: 
    5: Come, eat my bread, and drink the wine which I have mingled for you.
    6: Forsake childishness, and live, and walk by the ways of prudence. 
    7: He that teacheth a scorner, doth an injury to himself: and he that rebuketh a wicked man, getteth himself a blot. 
    8: Rebuke not a scorner lest he hate thee. Rebuke a wise man, and he will love thee. 
    9: Give an occasion to a wise man, and wisdom shall be added to him. Teach a just man, and he shall make haste to receive it. 
    10: The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom: and the knowledge of the holy is prudence.
    11: For by me shall thy days be multiplied, and years of life shall be added to thee. 
    12: If thou be wise, thou shalt be so to thyself: and if a scorner, thou alone shalt bear the evil. 
    13: A foolish woman and clamorous, and full of allurements, and knowing nothing at all, 
    14: Sat at the door of her house, upon a seat, in a high place of the city, 
    15: To call them that pass by the way, and go on their journey:
    16: He that is a little one, let him turn to me. And to the fool she said: 
    17: Stolen waters are sweeter, and hidden bread is more pleasant. 
    18: And he did not know that giants are there, and that her guests are in the depths of hell.

  Chapter 10.

    1: A wise son maketh the father glad: but a foolish son is the sorrow of his mother. 
    2: Treasures of wickedness shall profit nothing: but justice shall deliver from death. 
    3: The Lord will not afflict the soul of the just with famine, and he will disappoint the deceitful practices of the wicked. 
    4: The slothful hand hath wrought poverty: but the hand of the industrious getteth riches. He that trusteth to lies feedeth the winds: and the same runneth after birds that fly away. 
    5: He that gathered in the harvest is a wise son: but he that snorteth in the summer, is the son of confusion.
    6: The blessing of the Lord is upon the head of the just: but iniquity covereth the mouth of the wicked. 
    7: The memory of the just is with praises: and the name of the wicked shall rot. 
    8: The wise of heart receiveth precepts: a fool is beaten with lips. 
    9: He that walketh sincerely, walketh confidently: but he that perverteth his ways, shall be manifest. 
    10: He that winketh with the eye shall cause sorrow: and the foolish in lips shall be beaten.
    11: The mouth of the just is a vein of life: and the mouth of the wicked covereth iniquity. 
    12: Hatred stirreth up strifes: and charity covereth all sins. 
    13: In the lips of the wise is wisdom found: and a rod on the back of him that wanteth sense. 
    14: Wise men lay up knowledge: but the mouth of the fool is next to confusion. 
    15: The substance of a rich man is the city of his strength: the fear of the poor is their poverty.
    16: The work of the just is unto life: but the fruit of the wicked, unto sin. 
    17: The way of life, to him that observeth correction: but he that forsaketh reproofs goeth astray. 
    18: Lying lips hide hatred: he that uttereth reproach is foolish. 
    19: In the multitude of words there shall not want sin: but he that refraineth his lips is most wise. 
    20: The tongue of the just is as choice silver: but the heart of the wicked is nothing worth.
    21: The lips of the just teach many: but they that are ignorant, shall die in the want of understanding. 
    22: The blessing of the Lord maketh men rich: neither shall affliction be joined to them. 
    23: A fool worketh mischief as it were for sport: but wisdom is prudence to a man. 
    24: That which the wicked feareth, shall come upon him: to the just their desire shall be given. 
    25: As a tempest that passeth, so the wicked shall be no more: but the just is as an everlasting foundation.
    26: As vinegar to the teeth, and smoke to the eyes, so is the sluggard to them that sent him. 
    27: The fear of the Lord shall prolong days: and the years of the wicked shall be shortened. 
    28: The expectation of the just is joy; but the hope of the wicked shall perish. 
    29: The strength of the upright is the way of the Lord: and fear to them that work evil. 
    30: The just shall never be moved: but the wicked shall not dwell on the earth.
    31: The mouth of the just shall bring forth wisdom: the tongue of the perverse shall perish. 
    32: The lips of the just consider what is acceptable: and the mouth of the wicked uttereth perverse things.

  Chapter 11.

    1: A deceitful balance is an abomination before the Lord: and a just weight is his will. 
    2: Where pride is, there also shall be reproach: but where humility is, there also is wisdom. 
    3: The simplicity of the just shall guide them: and the deceitfulness of the wicked shall destroy them. 
    4: Riches shall not profit in the day of revenge: but justice shall deliver from death. 
    5: The justice of the upright shall make his way prosperous: and the wicked man shall fall by his own wickedness.
    6: The justice of the righteous shall deliver them: and the unjust shall be caught in their own snares. 
    7: When the wicked man is dead, there shall be no hope any more: and the expectation of the solicitous shall perish. 
    8: The just is delivered out of distress: and the wicked shall be given up for him. 
    9: The dissembler with his mouth deceiveth his friend: but the just shall be delivered by knowledge. 
    10: When it goeth well with the just the city shall rejoice: and when the wicked perish there shall be praise.
    11: By the blessing of the just the city shall be exalted: and by the mouth of the wicked it shall be overthrown. 
    12: He that despiseth his friend, is mean of heart: but the wise man will hold his peace. 
    13: He that walketh deceitfully, revealeth secrets: but he that is faithful, concealeth the thing committed to him by his friend. 
    14: Where there is no governor, the people shall fall: but there is safety where there is much counsel. 
    15: He shall be afflicted with evil, that is surety for a stranger: but he that is aware of the snares, shall be secure.
    16: A gracious woman shall find glory: and the strong shall have riches. 
    17: A merciful man doth good to his own soul: but he that is cruel casteth off even his own kindred. 
    18: The wicked maketh an unsteady work: but to him that soweth justice, there is a faithful reward. 
    19: Clemency prepareth life: and the pursuing of evil things, death. 
    20: A perverse heart is abominable to the Lord: and his will is in them that walk sincerely.
    21: Hand in hand the evil man shall not be innocent: but the seed of the just shall be saved. 
    22: A golden ring in a swine's snout, a woman fair and foolish. 
    23: The desire of the just is all good: the expectation of the wicked is indignation. 
    24: Some distribute their own goods, and grow richer: others take away what is not their own, and are always in want. 
    25: The soul which blesseth, shall be made fat: and he that inebriateth, shall be inebriated also himself.
    26: He that hideth up corn, shall be cursed among the people: but a blessing upon the head of them that sell. 
    27: Well doth he rise early who seeketh good things; but he that seeketh after evil things shall be oppressed by them. 
    28: He that trusteth in his riches shall fall: but the just shall spring up as a green leaf. 
    29: He that troubleth his own house, shall inherit the winds: and the fool shall serve the wise. 
    30: The fruit of the just man is a tree of life: and he that gaineth souls, is wise.
    31: If the just man receive in the earth, how much more the wicked and the sinner.

  Chapter 12.

    1: He that loveth correction, loveth knowledge: but he that hateth reproof is foolish. 
    2: He that is good, shall draw grace from the Lord: but he that trusteth in his own devices doth wickedly. 
    3: Men shall not be strengthened by wickedness: and the root of the just shall not be moved. 
    4: A diligent woman is a crown to her husband: and she that doth things worthy of confusion, is a rottenness in his bones. 
    5: The thoughts of the just are judgments: and the counsels of the wicked are deceitful.
    6: The words of the wicked lie in wait for blood: the mouth of the just shall deliver them. 
    7: Turn the wicked, and they shall not be: but the house of the just shall stand firm. 
    8: A man shall be known by his learning: but he that is vain and foolish, shall be exposed to contempt. 
    9: Better is the poor man that provideth for himself, than he that is glorious and wanteth bread. 
    10: The just regardeth the lives of his beasts: but the bowels of the wicked are cruel.
    11: He that tilleth his land shall be satisfied with bread: but he that pursueth idleness is very foolish. He that is delighted in passing his time over wine, leaveth a reproach in his strong holds. 
    12: The desire of the wicked is the fortification of evil men: but the root of the just shall prosper. 
    13: For the sins of the lips ruin draweth nigh to the evil man: but the just shall escape out of distress. 
    14: By the fruit of his own mouth shall a man be filled with good things, and according to the works of his hands it shall be repaid him. 
    15: The way of a fool is right in his own eyes: but he that is wise hearkeneth unto counsels.
    16: A fool immediately sheweth his anger: but he that dissembleth injuries is wise. 
    17: He that speaketh that which he knoweth, sheweth forth justice: but he that lieth, is a deceitful witness. 
    18: There is that promiseth, and is pricked as it were with a sword of conscience: but the tongue of the wise is health. 
    19: The lip of truth shall be steadfast for ever: but he that is a hasty witness, frameth a lying tongue. 
    20: Deceit is in the heart of them that think evil things: but joy followeth them that take counsels of peace.
    21: Whatsoever shall befall the just man. it shall not make him sad: but the wicked shall be filled with mischief. 
    22: Lying lips are an abomination to the Lord: but they that deal faithfully please him. 
    23: A cautious man concealeth knowledge: and the heart of fools publisheth folly. 
    24: The hand of the valiant shall bear rule: but that which is slothful, shall be under tribute. 
    25: Grief in the heart of a man shall bring him low, but with a good word he shall be made glad.
    26: He that neglecteth a loss for the sake of a friend, is just: but the way of the wicked shall deceive them. 
    27: The deceitful man shall not find gain: but the substance of a just man shall be precious gold. 
    28: In the path of justice is life: but the by-way leadeth to death.

End of day 184.