Day 147:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: Unto the end, a psalm for David. The fool hath said in his heart: There is no God, They are corrupt, and are become abominable in their ways: there is none that doth good, no not one. 
    2: The Lord hath looked down from heaven upon the children of men, to see if there be any that understand and seek God. 
    3: They are all gone aside, they are become unprofitable together: there is none that doth good, no not one. Their throat is an open sepulchre: with their tongues they acted deceitfully; the poison of asps is under their lips. Their mouth is full of cursing and bitterness; their feet are swift to shed blood. Destruction and unhappiness in their ways: and the way of peace they have not known: there is no fear of God before their eyes. 
    4: Shall not all they know that work iniquity, who devour my people as they eat bread? 
    5: They have not called upon the Lord: there have they trembled for fear, where there was no fear.
    6: For the Lord is in the just generation: you have confounded the counsel of the poor man, but the Lord is his hope. 
    7: Who shall give out of Sion the salvation of Israel? when the Lord shall have turned away the captivity of his people, Jacob shall rejoice and Israel shall be glad.

  Chapter 14.

    1: A psalm of David. Lord, who shall dwell in thy tabernacle? or who shall rest in thy holy hill? 
    2: He that walketh without blemish, and worketh justice: 
    3: He that speaketh truth in his heart, who hath not used deceit in his tongue: Nor hath done evil to his neighbour: nor taken up a reproach against his neighbours. 
    4: In his sight the malignant is brought to nothing: but he glorifieth them that fear the Lord. He that sweareth to his neighbour, and deceiveth not; 
    5: He that hath not put out his money to usury, nor taken bribes against the innocent: He that doth these things shall not be moved for ever.

  Chapter 15.

    1: The inscription of a title to David himself. Preserve me, O Lord, for I have put my trust in thee. 
    2: I have said to the Lord, thou art my God, for thou hast no need of my goods. 
    3: To the saints, who are in his land, he hath made wonderful all my desires in them. 
    4: Their infirmities were multiplied: afterwards they made haste. I will not gather together their meetings for blood offerings: nor will I be mindful of their names by my lips. 
    5: The Lord is the portion of my inheritance and of my cup: it is thou that wilt restore my inheritance to me.
    6: The lines are fallen unto me in goodly places: for my inheritance is goodly to me. 
    7: I will bless the Lord, who hath given me understanding: moreover my reins also have corrected me even till night. 
    8: I set the Lord always in my sight: for he is at my right hand, that I be not moved. 
    9: Therefore my heart hath been glad, and my tongue hath rejoiced: moreover my flesh also shall rest in hope. 
    10: Because thou wilt not leave my soul in hell; nor wilt thou give thy holy one to see corruption.
    11: Thou hast made known to me the ways of life, thou shalt fill me with joy with thy countenance: at thy right hand are delights even to the end.

  Chapter 16.

    1: The prayer of David. Hear, O Lord, my justice: attend to my supplication. Give ear unto my prayer, which proceedeth not from deceitful lips. 
    2: Let my judgment come forth from thy countenance: let thy eyes behold the things that are equitable. 
    3: Thou hast proved my heart, and visited it by night, thou hast tried me by fire: and iniquity hath not been found in me. 
    4: That my mouth may not speak the works of men: for the sake of the words of thy lips, I have kept hard ways. 
    5: Perfect thou my goings in thy paths: that my footsteps be not moved.
    6: I have cried to thee, for thou, O God, hast heard me: O incline thy ear unto me, and hear my words. 
    7: shew forth thy wonderful mercies; thou who savest them that trust in thee. 
    8: From them that resist thy right hand keep me, as the apple of thy eye. Protect me under the shadow of thy wings. 
    9: From the face of the wicked who have afflicted me. My enemies have surrounded my soul: 
    10: They have shut up their fat: their mouth hath spoken proudly.
    11: They have cast me forth and now they have surrounded me: they have set their eyes bowing down to the earth. 
    12: They have taken me, as a lion prepared for the prey; and as a young lion dwelling in secret places. 
    13: Arise, O Lord, disappoint him and supplant him; deliver my soul from the wicked one: thy sword 
    14: From the enemies of thy hand. O Lord, divide them from the few of the earth in their life: their belly is filled from thy hidden stores. They are full of children: and they have left to their little ones the rest of their substance. 
    15: But as for me, I will appear before thy sight in justice: I shall be satisfied when thy glory shall appear.

End of day 147.