Day 175:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['125', '126', '127', '128']:

  Chapter 125.

    1: When the lord brought back the captivity of Sion, we became like men comforted. 
    2: Then was our mouth filled with gladness; and our tongue with joy. Then shall they say among the Gentiles: The Lord hath done great things for them. 
    3: The Lord hath done great things for us: we are become joyful. 
    4: Turn again our captivity, O Lord, as a stream in the south. 
    5: They that sow in tears shall reap in joy.
    6: Going they went and wept, casting their seeds. 
    7: But coming they shall come with joyfulness, carrying their sheaves.

  Chapter 126.

    1: Unless the Lord build the house, they labour in vain that build it. Unless the Lord keep the city, he watcheth in vain that keepeth it. 
    2: It is vain for you to rise before light, rise ye after you have sitten, you that eat the bread of sorrow. When he shall give sleep to his beloved, 
    3: Behold the inheritance of the Lord are children: the reward, the fruit of the womb. 
    4: As arrows in the hand of the mighty, so the children of them that have been shaken. 
    5: Blessed is the man that hath filled the desire with them; he shall not be confounded when he shall speak to his enemies in the gate.

  Chapter 127.

    1: Blessed are all they that fear the Lord: that walk in his ways. 
    2: For thou shalt eat the labours of thy hands: blessed art thou, and it shall be well with thee. 
    3: Thy wife as a fruitful vine, on the sides of thy house. Thy children as olive plants, round about thy table. 
    4: Behold, thus shall the man be blessed that feareth the Lord. 
    5: May the Lord bless thee out of Sion: and mayest thou see the good things of Jerusalem all the days of thy life.
    6: And mayest thou see thy children's children, peace upon Israel.

  Chapter 128.

    1: Often have they fought against me from my youth, let Israel now say. 
    2: Often have they fought against me from my youth: but they could not prevail over me. 
    3: The wicked have wrought upon my back: they have lengthened their iniquity. 
    4: The Lord who is just will cut the necks of sinners: 
    5: Let them all be confounded and turned back that hate Sion.
    6: Let them be as grass on the tops of houses: which withered before it be plucked up: 
    7: Wherewith the mower filleth not his hand: nor he that gathereth sheaves his bosom. 
    8: And they that have passed by have not said: The blessing of the Lord be upon you: we have blessed you in the name of the Lord.

End of day 175.