Day 358:

Reading Revelation, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: And there came one of the seven angels, who had the seven vials, and spoke with me, saying: Come, I will shew thee the condemnation of the great harlot, who sitteth upon many waters, 
    2: With whom the kings of the earth have committed fornication; and they who inhabit the earth, have been made drunk with the wine of her whoredom. 
    3: And he took me away in spirit into the desert. And I saw a woman sitting upon a scarlet coloured beast, full of names of blasphemy, having seven heads and ten horns. 
    4: And the woman was clothed round about with purple and scarlet, and gilt with gold, and precious stones and pearls, having a golden cup in her hand, full of the abomination and filthiness of her fornication. 
    5: And on her forehead a name was written: A mystery; Babylon the great, the mother of the fornications, and the abominations of the earth.
    6: And I saw the woman drunk with the blood of the saints, and with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus. And I wondered, when I had seen her, with great admiration. 
    7: And the angel said to me: Why dost thou wonder? I will tell thee the mystery of the woman, and of the beast which carrieth her, which hath the seven heads and ten horns. 
    8: The beast, which thou sawest, was, and is not, and shall come up out of the bottomless pit, and go into destruction: and the inhabitants on the earth (whose names are not written in the book of life from the foundation of the world) shall wonder, seeing the beast that was, and is not. 
    9: And here is the understanding that hath wisdom. The seven heads are seven mountains, upon which the woman sitteth, and they are seven kings: 
    10: Five are fallen, one is, and the other is not yet come: and when he is come, he must remain a short time.
    11: And the beast which was, and is not: the same also is the eighth, and is of the seven, and goeth into destruction. 
    12: And the ten horns which thou sawest, are ten kings, who have not yet received a kingdom, but shall receive power as kings one hour after the beast. 
    13: These have one design: and their strength and power they shall deliver to the beast. 
    14: These shall fight with the Lamb, and the Lamb shall overcome them, because he is Lord of lords, and King of kings, and they that are with him are called, and elect, and faithful. 
    15: And he said to me: The waters which thou sawest, where the harlot sitteth, are peoples, and nations, and tongues.
    16: And the ten horns which thou sawest in the beast: these shall hate the harlot, and shall make her desolate and naked, and shall eat her flesh, and shall burn her with fire. 
    17: For God hath given into their hearts to do that which pleaseth him: that they give their kingdom to the beast, till the words of God be fulfilled. 
    18: And the woman which thou sawest, is the great city, which hath kingdom over the kings of the earth.

  Chapter 18.

    1: And after these things, I saw another angel come down from heaven, having great power: and the earth was enlightened with his glory. 
    2: And he cried out with a strong voice, saying: Babylon the great is fallen, is fallen; and is become the habitation of devils, and the hold of every unclean spirit, and the hold of every unclean and hateful bird: 
    3: Because all nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her fornication; and the kings of the earth have committed fornication with her; and the merchants of the earth have been made rich by the power of her delicacies. 
    4: And I heard another voice from heaven, saying: Go out from her, my people; that you be not partakers of her sins, and that you receive not of her plagues. 
    5: For her sins have reached unto heaven, and the Lord hath remembered her iniquities.
    6: Render to her as she also hath rendered to you; and double unto her double according to her works: in the cup wherein she hath mingled, mingle ye double unto her. 
    7: As much as she hath glorified herself, and lived in delicacies, so much torment and sorrow give ye to her; because she saith in her heart: I sit a queen, and am no widow; and sorrow I shall not see. 
    8: Therefore shall her plagues come in one day, death, and mourning, and famine, and she shall be burnt with the fire; because God is strong, who shall judge her. 
    9: And the kings of the earth, who have committed fornication, and lived in delicacies with her, shall weep, and bewail themselves over her, when they shall see the smoke of her burning: 
    10: Standing afar off for fear of her torments, saying: Alas! alas! that great city Babylon, that mighty city: for in one hour is thy judgment come.
    11: And the merchants of the earth shall weep, and mourn over her: for no man shall buy their merchandise any more. 
    12: Merchandise of gold and silver, and precious stones; and of pearls, and fine linen, and purple, and silk, and scarlet, and all thyine wood, and all manner of vessels of ivory, and all manner of vessels of precious stone, and of brass, and of iron, and of marble, 
    13: And cinnamon, and odours, and ointment, and frankincense, and wine, and oil, and fine flour, and wheat, and beasts, and sheep, and horses, and chariots, and slaves, and souls of men. 
    14: And the fruits of the desire of thy soul are departed from thee, and all fat and goodly things are perished from thee, and they shall find them no more at all. 
    15: The merchants of these things, who were made rich, shall stand afar off from her, for fear of her torments, weeping and mourning.
    16: And saying: Alas! alas! that great city, which was clothed with fine linen, and purple, and scarlet, and was gilt with gold, and precious stones, and pearls. 
    17: For in one hour are so great riches come to nought; and every shipmaster, and all that sail into the lake, and mariners, and as many as work in the sea, stood afar off. 
    18: And cried, seeing the place of her burning, saying: What city is like to this great city? 
    19: And they cast dust upon their heads, and cried, weeping and mourning, saying: Alas! alas! that great city, wherein all were made rich, that had ships at sea, by reason of her prices: for in one hour she is made desolate. 
    20: Rejoice over her, thou heaven, and ye holy apostles and prophets; for God hath judged your judgment on her.
    21: And a mighty angel took up a stone, as it were a great millstone, and cast it into the sea, saying: With such violence as this shall Babylon, that great city, be thrown down, and shall be found no more at all. 
    22: And the voice of harpers, and of musicians, and of them that play on the pipe, and on the trumpet, shall no more be heard at all in thee; and no craftsman of any art whatsoever shall be found any more at all in thee; and the sound of the mill shall be heard no more at all in thee; 
    23: And the light of the lamp shall shine no more at all in thee; and the voice of the bridegroom and the bride shall be heard no more at all in thee: for thy merchants were the great men of the earth, for all nations have been deceived by thy enchantments. 
    24: And in her was found the blood of prophets and of saints, and of all that were slain upon the earth.

  Chapter 19.

    1: After these things I heard as it were the voice of much people in heaven, saying: Alleluia. Salvation, and glory, and power is to our God. 
    2: For true and just are his judgments, who hath judged the great harlot which corrupted the earth with her fornication, and hath revenged the blood of his servants, at her hands. 
    3: And again they said: Alleluia. And her smoke ascendeth for ever and ever. 
    4: And the four and twenty ancients, and the four living creatures fell down and adored God that sitteth upon the throne, saying: Amen; Alleluia. 
    5: And a voice came out from the throne, saying: Give praise to our God, all ye his servants; and you that fear him, little and great.
    6: And I heard as it were the voice of a great multitude, and as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of great thunders, saying, Alleluia: for the Lord our God the Almighty hath reigned. 
    7: Let us be glad and rejoice, and give glory to him; for the marriage of the Lamb is come, and his wife hath prepared herself. 
    8: And it is granted to her that she should clothe herself with fine linen, glittering and white. For the fine linen are the justifications of saints. 
    9: And he said to me: Write: Blessed are they that are called to the marriage supper of the Lamb. And he saith to me: These words of God are true. 
    10: And I fell down before his feet, to adore him. And he saith to me: See thou do it not: I am thy fellow servant, and of thy brethren, who have the testimony of Jesus. Adore God. For the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.
    11: And I saw heaven opened, and behold a white horse; and he that sat upon him was called faithful and true, and with justice doth he judge and fight. 
    12: And his eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head were many diadems, and he had a name written, which no man knoweth but himself. 
    13: And he was clothed with a garment sprinkled with blood; and his name is called, THE WORD OF GOD. 
    14: And the armies that are in heaven followed him on white horses, clothed in fine linen, white and clean. 
    15: And out of his mouth proceedeth a sharp two edged sword; that with it he may strike the nations. And he shall rule them with a rod of iron; and he treadeth the winepress of the fierceness of the wrath of God the Almighty.
    16: And he hath on his garment, and on his thigh written: KING OF KINGS, AND LORD OF LORDS. 
    17: And I saw an angel standing in the sun, and he cried with a loud voice, saying to all the birds that did fly through the midst of heaven: Come, gather yourselves together to the great supper of God: 
    18: That you may eat the flesh of kings, and the flesh of tribunes, and the flesh of mighty men, and the flesh of horses, and of them that sit on them, and the flesh of all freemen and bondmen, and of little and of great. 
    19: And I saw the beast, and the kings of the earth, and their armies gathered together to make war with him that sat upon the horse, and with his army. 
    20: And the beast was taken, and with him the false prophet, who wrought signs before him, wherewith he seduced them who received the character of the beast, and who adored his image. These two were cast alive into the pool of fire, burning with brimstone.
    21: And the rest were slain by the sword of him that sitteth upon the horse, which proceedeth out of his mouth; and all the birds were filled with their flesh.

  Chapter 20.

    1: And I saw an angel coming down from heaven, having the key of the bottomless pit, and a great chain in his hand. 
    2: And he laid hold on the dragon the old serpent, which is the devil and Satan, and bound him for a thousand years. 
    3: And he cast him into the bottomless pit, and shut him up, and set a seal upon him, that he should no more seduce the nations, till the thousand years be finished. And after that, he must be loosed a little time. 
    4: And I saw seats; and they sat upon them; and judgment was given unto them; and the souls of them that were beheaded for the testimony of Jesus, and for the word of God, and who had not adored the beast nor his image, nor received his character on their foreheads, or in their hands; and they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years. 
    5: The rest of the dead lived not, till the thousand years were finished. This is the first resurrection.
    6: Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection. In these the second death hath no power; but they shall be priests of God and of Christ; and shall reign with him a thousand years. 
    7: And when the thousand years shall be finished, Satan shall be loosed out of his prison, and shall go forth, and seduce the nations, which are over the four quarters of the earth, Gog, and Magog, and shall gather them together to battle, the number of whom is as the sand of the sea. 
    8: And they came upon the breadth of the earth, and encompassed the camp of the saints, and the beloved city. 
    9: And there came down fire from God out of heaven, and devoured them; and the devil, who seduced them, was cast into the pool of fire and brimstone, where both the beast 
    10: And the false prophet shall be tormented day and night for ever and ever.
    11: And I saw a great white throne, and one sitting upon it, from whose face the earth and heaven fled away, and there was no place found for them. 
    12: And I saw the dead, great and small, standing in the presence of the throne, and the books were opened; and another book was opened, which is the book of life; and the dead were judged by those things which were written in the books, according to their works. 
    13: And the sea gave up the dead that were in it, and death and hell gave up their dead that were in them; and they were judged every one according to their works. 
    14: And hell and death were cast into the pool of fire. This is the second death. 
    15: And whosoever was not found written in the book of life, was cast into the pool of fire.

End of day 358.