Day 251:

Reading Ezekiel, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying: 
    2: Son of man, put forth a riddle, and speak a parable to the house of Israel, 
    3: And say: Thus saith the Lord God: A large eagle with great wings, long-limbed, full of feathers, and of variety, came to Libanus, and took away the marrow of the cedar. 
    4: He cropped off the top of the twigs thereof: and carried it away into the land of Chanaan, and he set it in a city of merchants. 
    5: And he took of the seed of the land, and put it in the ground for seed, that it might take a firm root over many waters: he planted it on the surface of the earth.
    6: And it sprung up and grew into a spreading vine of low stature, and the branches thereof looked towards him: and the roots thereof were under him. So it became a vine, and grew into branches, and shot forth sprigs. 
    7: And there was another large eagle, with great wings, and many feathers: and behold this vine, bending as it were her roots towards him, stretched forth her branches to him, that he might water it by the furrows of her plantation. 
    8: It was planted in a good ground upon many waters, that it might bring forth branches, and bear fruit, that it might become a large vine. 
    9: Say thou: Thus saith the Lord God: Shall it prosper then? shall he not pull up the roots thereof, and strip off its fruit, and dry up all the branches it hath shot forth, and make it wither: and this without a strong arm, or many people, to pluck it up by the root? 
    10: Behold, it is planted: shall it prosper then? shall it not be dried up when the burning wind shall touch it, and shall it not wither in the furrows where it grew?
    11: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying: 
    12: Say to the provoking house: Know you not what these things mean? Tell them: Behold the king of Babylon cometh to Jerusalem: and he shall take away the king and the princes thereof, and carry them with him to Babylon. 
    13: And he shall take one of the king's seed, and make a covenant with him, and take an oath of him. Yea, and he shall take away the mighty men of the land, 
    14: That it may be a low kingdom and not lift itself up, but keep his covenant, and observe it. 
    15: But he hath revolted from him and sent ambassadors to Egypt, that it might give him horses, and much people. And shall he that hath done thus prosper, or be saved? and shall he escape that hath broken the covenant?
    16: As I live, saith the Lord God: In the place where the king dwelleth that made him king, whose oath he hath made void, and whose covenant he broke, even in the midst of Babylon shall he die. 
    17: And not with a great army, nor with much people shall Pharao fight against him: when he shall cast up mounts, and build forts, to cut off many souls. 
    18: For he had despised the oath, breaking his covenant, and behold he hath given his hand: and having done all these things, he shall not escape. 
    19: Therefore thus saith the Lord God: As I live, I will lay upon his head the oath he hath despised, and the covenant he hath broken. 
    20: And I will spread my net over him, and he shall be taken in my net: and I will bring him into Babylon, and will judge him there for the transgression by which he hath despised me.
    21: And all his fugitives with all his bands shall fall by the sword: and the residue shall be scattered into every wind: and you shall know that I the Lord have spoken. 
    22: Thus saith the Lord God: I myself will take of the marrow of the high cedar, and will set it: I will crop off a tender twig from the top of the branches thereof, and I will plant it on a mountain high and eminent. 
    23: On the high mountains of Israel will I plant it, and it shall shoot forth into branches, and shall bear fruit, and it shall become a great cedar: and all birds shall dwell under it, and every fowl shall make its nest under the shadow of the branches thereof. 
    24: And all the trees of the country shall know that I the Lord have brought down the high tree, and exalted the low tree: and have dried up the green tree, and have caused the dry tree to flourish. I the Lord have spoken and have done it.

  Chapter 18.

    1: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying: What is the meaning? 
    2: That you use among you this parable as a proverb in the land of Israel, saying: The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the teeth of the children are set on edge. 
    3: As I live, saith the Lord God, this parable shall be no more to you a proverb in Israel. 
    4: Behold all souls are mine: as the soul of the father, so also the soul of the son is mine: the soul that sinneth, the same shall die. 
    5: And if a man be just, and do judgment and justice,
    6: And hath not eaten upon the mountains, nor lifted up his eyes to the idols of the house of Israel: and hath not defiled his neighbour's wife, nor come near to a menstruous woman: 
    7: And hath not wronged any man: but hath restored the pledge to the debtor, hath taken nothing away by violence: hath given his bread to the hungry, and hath covered the naked with a garment: 
    8: Hath not lent upon usury, nor taken any increase: hath withdrawn his hand from iniquity, and hath executed true judgment between man and man: 
    9: Hath walked in my commandments, and kept my judgments, to do truth: he is just, he shall surely live, saith the Lord God. 
    10: And if he beget a son that is a robber, a shedder of blood, and that hath done some one of these things:
    11: Though he doth not all these things, but that eateth upon the mountains, and that defileth his neighbour's wife: 
    12: That grieveth the needy and the poor, that taketh away by violence, that restoreth not the pledge, and that lifteth up his eyes to idols, that committeth abomination: 
    13: That giveth upon usury, and that taketh an increase: shall such a one live? he shall not live. Seeing he hath done all these detestable things, he shall surely die, his blood shall be upon him. 
    14: But if he beget a son, who, seeing all his father's sins, which he hath done, is afraid, and shall not do the like to them: 
    15: That hath not eaten upon the mountains, nor lifted up his eyes to the idols of the house of Israel, and hath not defiled his neighbour's wife:
    16: And hath not grieved any man, nor withholden the pledge, nor taken away with violence, but hath given his bread to the hungry, and covered the naked with a garment: 
    17: That hath turned away his hand from injuring the poor, hath not taken usury and increase, but hath executed my judgments, and hath walked in my commandments: this man shall not die for the iniquity of his father, but living he shall live. 
    18: As for his father, because he oppressed and offered violence to his brother, and wrought evil in the midst of his people, behold he is dead in his own iniquity. 
    19: And you say: Why hath not the son borne the iniquity of his father? Verily, because the son hath wrought judgment and justice, hath kept all my commandments, and done them, living, he shall live. 
    20: The soul that sinneth, the same shall die: the son shall not bear the iniquity of the father, and the father shall not bear the iniquity of the son: the justice of the just shall be upon him, and the wickedness of the wicked shall be upon him.
    21: But if the wicked do penance for all his sins which he hath committed, and keep all my commandments, and do judgment, and justice, living he shall live, and shall not die. 
    22: I will not remember all his iniquities that he hath done: in his justice which he hath wrought, he shall live. 
    23: Is it my will that a sinner should die, saith the Lord God, and not that he should be converted from his ways, and live? 
    24: But if the just man turn himself away from his justice, and do iniquity according to all the abominations which the wicked man useth to work, shall he live? all his justices which he hath done, shall not be remembered: in the prevarication, by which he hath prevaricated, and in his sin, which he hath committed, in them he shall die. 
    25: And you have said: The way of the Lord is not right. Hear ye, therefore, O house of Israel: Is it my way that is not right, and are not rather your ways perverse?
    26: For when the just turneth himself away from his justice, and committeth iniquity, he shall die therein: in the injustice that he hath wrought he shall die. 
    27: And when the wicked turneth himself away from his wickedness, which he hath wrought, and doeth judgment, and justice: he shall save his soul alive. 
    28: Because he considereth and turneth away himself from all his iniquities which he hath wrought, he shall surely live, and not die. 
    29: And the children of Israel say: The way of the Lord is not right. Are not my ways right, O house of Israel, and are not rather your ways perverse? 
    30: Therefore will I judge every man according to his ways, O house of Israel, saith the Lord God. Be converted, and do penance for all your iniquities: and iniquity shall not be your ruin.
    31: Cast away from you all your transgressions, by which you have transgressed, and make to yourselves a new heart, and a new spirit: and why will you die, O house of Israel? 
    32: For I desire not the death of him that dieth, saith the Lord God, return ye and live.

  Chapter 19.

    1: Moreover take thou up a lamentation for the princes of Israel, 
    2: And say: Why did thy mother the lioness lie down among the lions, and bring up her whelps in the midst of young lions? 
    3: And she brought out one of her whelps, and he became a lion: and he learned to catch the prey, and to devour men. 
    4: And the nations heard of him, and took him, but not without receiving wounds: and they brought him in chains into the land of Egypt. 
    5: But she seeing herself weakened, and that her hope was lost, took one of her young lions, and set him up for a lion.
    6: And he went up and down among the lions, and became a lion: and he learned to catch the prey, and to devour men. 
    7: He learned to make widows, and to lay waste their cities: and the land became desolate, and the fulness thereof by the noise of his roaring. 
    8: And the nations came together against him on every side out of the provinces, and they spread their net over him, in their wounds he was taken. 
    9: And they put him into a cage, they brought him in chains to the king of Babylon: and they cast him into prison, that his voice should no more be heard upon the mountains of Israel. 
    10: Thy mother is like a vine in thy blood planted by the water: her fruit and her branches have grown out of many waters.
    11: And she hath strong rods to make sceptres for them that bear rule, and her stature was exalted among the branches: and she saw her height in the multitude of her branches. 
    12: But she was plucked up in wrath, and cast on the ground, and the burning wind dried up her fruit: her strong rods are withered, and dried up: the fire hath devoured her. 
    13: And now she is transplanted into the desert, in a land not passable, and dry. 
    14: And a fire is gone out from a rod of her branches, which hath devoured her fruit: so that she now hath no strong rod, to be a sceptre of rulers. This is a lamentation, and it shall be for a lamentation.

  Chapter 20.

    1: And it came to pass in the seventh year, in the fifth month, the tenth day of the month: there came men of the ancients of Israel to inquire of the Lord, and they sat before me. 
    2: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying: 
    3: Son of man, speak to the ancients of Israel, and say to them: Thus saith the Lord God: Are you come to inquire of me? As I live, I will not answer you, saith the Lord God. 
    4: If thou judgest them, if thou judgest, son of man, declare to them the abominations of their fathers. 
    5: And say to them: Thus saith the Lord God: In the day when I chose Israel, and lifted up my hand for the race of the house of Jacob: and appeared to them in the land of Egypt, and lifted up my hand for them, saying: I am the Lord your God:
    6: In that day I lifted up my hand for them, to bring them out of the land of Egypt, into a land which I had provided for them, flowing with milk and honey, which excelleth amongst all lands. 
    7: And I said to them: Let every man cast away the scandals of his eyes, and defile not yourselves with the idols of Egypt: I am the Lord your God. 
    8: But they provoked me, and would not hearken to me: they did not every man cast away the abominations of his eyes, neither did they forsake the idols of Egypt: and I said I would pour out my indignation upon them, and accomplish my wrath against them in the midst of the land of Egypt. 
    9: But I did otherwise for my name's sake, that it might not be violated before the nations, in the midst of whom they were, and among whom I made myself known to them, to bring them out of the land of Egypt. 
    10: Therefore I brought them out from the land of Egypt, and brought them into the desert.
    11: And I gave them my statutes, and I shewed them my judgments, which if a man do, he shall live in them. 
    12: Moreover I gave them also my sabbaths, to be a sign between me and them: and that they might know that I am the Lord that sanctify them. 
    13: But the house of Israel provoked me in the desert: they walked not in my statutes, and they cast away my judgments, which if a man do he shall live in them: and they grievously violated my sabbaths. I said therefore that I would pour out my indignation upon them in the desert, and would consume them. 
    14: But I spared them for the sake of my name, lest it should be profaned before the nations, from which I brought them out, in their sight. 
    15: So I lifted up my hand over them in the desert, not to bring them into the land which I had given them flowing with milk and honey, the best of all lands.
    16: Because they cast off my judgments, and walked not in my statutes, and violated my sabbaths: for their heart went after idols. 
    17: Yet my eye spared them, so that I destroyed them not: neither did I consume them in the desert. 
    18: And I said to their children in the wilderness: Walk not in the statutes of your fathers, and observe not their judgments, nor be ye defiled with their idols: 
    19: I am the Lord your God: walk ye in my statutes, and observe my judgments, and do them. 
    20: And sanctify my sabbaths, that they may be a sign between me and you: and that you may know that I am the Lord your God.
    21: But their children provoked me, they walked not in my commandments, nor observed my judgments to do them: which if a man do, he shall live in them: and they violated my sabbaths: and I threatened to pour out my indignation upon them, and to accomplish my wrath in them in the desert. 
    22: But I turned away my hand, and wrought for my name's sake, that it might not be violated before the nations, out of which I brought them forth in their sight. 
    23: Again I lifted up my hand upon them in the wilderness, to disperse them among the nations, and scatter them through the countries: 
    24: Because they had not done my judgments, and had cast off my statutes, and had violated my sabbaths, and their eyes had been after the idols of their fathers. 
    25: Therefore I also gave them statutes that were not good, and judgments, in which they shall not live.
    26: And I polluted them in their own gifts, when they offered all that opened the womb, for their offences: and they shall know that I am the Lord. 
    27: Wherefore speak to the house of Israel, O son of man, and say to them: Thus saith the Lord God: Moreover in this also your fathers blasphemed me, when they had despised and contemned me; 
    28: And I had brought them into the land, for which I lifted up my hand to give it them: they saw every high hill, and every shady tree, and there they sacrificed their victims: and there they presented the provocation of their offerings, and there they set their sweet odours, and poured forth their libations. 
    29: And I said to them: What meaneth the high place to which you go? and the name thereof was called High-place even to this day. 
    30: Wherefore say to the house of Israel: Thus saith the Lord God: Verily, you are defiled in the way of your fathers, and you commit fornication with their abominations.
    31: And you defile yourselves with all your: idols unto this day, in the offering of your gifts, when you make your children pass through the fire: and shall I answer you, O house of Israel? As I live, saith the Lord God, I will not answer you. 
    32: Neither shall the thought of your mind come to pass, by which you say: We will be as the Gentiles, and as the families of the earth, to worship stocks and stones. 
    33: As I live, saith the Lord God, I will reign over you with a strong hand, and with a stretched out arm, and with fury poured out. 
    34: And I will bring you out from the people, and I will gather you out of the countries, in which you are scattered, I will reign over you with a strong hand, and with a stretched out arm, and with fury poured out. 
    35: And I will bring you into the wilderness of people, and there will I plead with you face to face.
    36: As I pleaded against your fathers in the desert of the land of Egypt; even so will I judge you, saith the Lord God. 
    37: And I will make you subject to my sceptre, and will bring you into the bands of the covenant. 
    38: And I will pick out from among you the transgressors, and the wicked, and will bring them out of the land where they sojourn, and they shall not enter into the land of Israel: and you shall know that I am the Lord. 
    39: And as for you, O house of Israel: thus saith the Lord God: Walk ye every one after your idols, and serve them. But if in this also you hear me not, but defile my holy name any more with your gifts, and with your idols; 
    40: In my holy mountain, in the high mountain of Israel, saith the Lord God, there shall all the house of Israel serve me; all of them I say, in the land in which they shall please me, and there will I require your firstfruits, and the chief of your tithes with all your sanctifications.
    41: I will accept of you for an odour of sweetness, when I shall have brought you out from the people, and shall have gathered you out of the lands into which you are scattered, and I will be sanctified in you in the sight of the nations. 
    42: And you shall know that I am the Lord, when I shall have brought you into the land of Israel, into the land for which I lifted up my hand to give it to your fathers. 
    43: And there you shall remember your ways, and all your wicked doings with which you have been defiled; and you shall be displeased with yourselves in your own sight, for all your wicked deeds which you committed. 
    44: And you shall know that I am the Lord, when I shall have done well by you for my own name's sake, and not according to your evil ways, nor according to your wicked deeds, O house of Israel, saith the Lord God. 
    45: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying:
    46: Son of man, set thy face against the way of the south, and drop towards the south, and prophesy against the forest of the south field. 
    47: And say to the south forest: Hear the word of the Lord: Thus saith the Lord God: Behold I will kindle a fire in thee, and will burn in thee every green tree, and every dry tree: the flame of the fire shall not be quenched: and every face shall be burned in it, from the south even to the north. 
    48: And all flesh shall see, that I the Lord have kindled it, and it shall not be quenched. 
    49: And I said: Ah, ah, ah, O Lord God: they say of me: Doth not this man speak by parables?

End of day 251.