Day 183:

Reading Proverbs, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: My son, attend to my wisdom, and incline thy ear to my prudence. 
    2: That thou mayst keep thoughts, and thy lips may preserve instruction. Mind not the deceit of a woman. 
    3: For the lips of a harlot are like a honeycomb dropping, and her throat is smoother than oil. 
    4: But her end is bitter as wormwood, and sharp as a two-edged sword. 
    5: Her feet go down into death, and her steps go in as far as hell.
    6: They walk not by the path of life, her steps are wandering, and unaccountable. 
    7: Now therefore, my son, hear me, and depart not from the words of my mouth. 
    8: Remove thy way far from her, and come not nigh the doors of her house. 
    9: Give not thy honour to strangers, and thy years to the cruel. 
    10: Lest strangers be filled with thy strength, and thy labours be in another man's house,
    11: And thou mourn it the last, when thou shalt have spent thy flesh and thy body, and say: 
    12: Why have I hated instruction, and my heart consented not to reproof, 
    13: And have not heard the voice of them that taught me, and have not inclined my ear to masters? 
    14: I have almost been in all evil, in the midst of the church and of the congregation. 
    15: Drink water out of thy own cistern, and the streams of thy own well:
    16: Let thy fountains be conveyed abroad, and in the streets divide thy waters. 
    17: Keep them to thyself alone, neither let strangers be partakers with thee. 
    18: Let thy vein be blessed, and rejoice with the wife of thy youth: 
    19: Let her be thy dearest hind, and most agreeable fawn: let her breasts inebriate thee at all times; be thou delighted continually with her love. 
    20: Why art thou seduced, my son, by a strange woman, and art cherished in the bosom of another?
    21: The Lord beholdeth the ways of man, and considereth all his steps. 
    22: His own iniquities catch the wicked, and he is fast bound with the ropes of his own sins. 
    23: He shall die, because he hath not received instruction, and in the multitude of his folly he shall be deceived.

  Chapter 6.

    1: My son, if thou be surety for thy friend, thou hast engaged fast thy hand to a stranger. 
    2: Thou art ensnared with the words of thy mouth, and caught with thy own words. 
    3: Do therefore, my son, what I say, and deliver thyself: because thou art fallen into the hand of thy neighbour. Run about, make haste, stir up thy friend: 
    4: Give not sleep to thy eyes, neither let thy eyelids slumber. 
    5: Deliver thyself as a doe from the hand, and as a bird from the hand of the fowler.
    6: Go to the ant, O sluggard, and consider her ways, and learn wisdom: 
    7: Which, although she hath no guide, nor master, nor captain, 
    8: Provideth her meat for herself in the summer, and gathereth her food in the harvest. 
    9: How long wilt thou sleep, O sluggard? when wilt thou rise out of thy sleep? 
    10: Thou wilt sleep a little, thou wilt slumber a little, thou wilt fold thy hands a little to sleep:
    11: And want shall come upon thee, as a traveller, and poverty as a man armed. But if thou be diligent, thy harvest shall come as a fountain, and want shall flee far from thee. 
    12: A man that is an apostate, an unprofitable man, walketh with a perverse mouth, 
    13: He winketh with the eyes, presseth with the foot, speaketh with the finger. 
    14: With a wicked heart he deviseth evil, and at all times he soweth discord. 
    15: To such a one his destruction shall presently come, and he shall suddenly be destroyed, and shall no longer have any remedy.
    16: Six things there are, which the Lord hateth, and the seventh his soul detesteth: 
    17: Haughty eyes, a lying tongue, hands that shed innocent blood, 
    18: A heart that deviseth wicked plots, feet that are swift to run into mischief, 
    19: A deceitful witness that uttereth lies, and him that soweth discord among brethren. 
    20: My son, keep the commandments of thy father, and forsake not the law of thy mother.
    21: Bind them in thy heart continually, and put them about thy neck. 
    22: When thou walkest, let them go with thee: when thou sleepest, let them keep thee; and when thou awakest, talk with them. 
    23: Because the commandment is a lamp, and the law a light, and reproofs of instruction are the way of life: 
    24: That they may keep thee from the evil woman, and from the flattering tongue of the stranger. 
    25: Let not thy heart covet her beauty, be not caught with her winks:
    26: For the price of a harlot is scarce one loaf: but the woman catcheth the precious soul of a man. 
    27: Can a man hide fire in his bosom, and his garments not burn? 
    28: Or can he walk upon hot coals, and his feet not be burnt? 
    29: So he that goeth in to his neighbour's wife, shall not be clean when he shall touch her. 
    30: The fault is not so great when a man hath stolen: for he stealeth to fill his hungry soul:
    31: And if he be taken he shall restore sevenfold, and shall give up all the substance of his house. 
    32: But he that is an adulterer, for the folly of his heart shall destroy his own soul: 
    33: He gathereth to himself shame and dishonour, and his reproach shall not be blotted out: 
    34: Because the jealousy and rage of the husband will not spare in the day of revenge, 
    35: Nor will he yield to any man's prayers, nor will he accept for satisfaction ever so many gifts.

  Chapter 7.

    1: My son, keep my words, and lay up my precepts with thee. Son, 
    2: Keep my commandments, and thou shalt live: and my law as the apple of thy eye: 
    3: Bind it upon thy fingers, write it upon the tables of thy heart. 
    4: Say to wisdom: Thou art my sister: and call prudence thy friend, 
    5: That she may keep thee from the woman that is not thine, and from the stranger who sweeteneth her words.
    6: For I look out of the window of my house through the lattice, 
    7: And I see little ones, I behold a foolish young man, 
    8: Who passeth through the street by the corner, and goeth nigh the way of her house. 
    9: In the dark, when it grows late, in the darkness and obscurity of the night, 
    10: And behold a woman meeteth him in harlot's attire prepared to deceive souls; talkative and wandering,
    11: Not bearing to be quiet, not able to abide still at home, 
    12: Now abroad, now in the streets, now lying in wait near the corners. 
    13: And catching the young man, she kisseth him, and with an impudent face, flattereth, saying: 
    14: I vowed victims for prosperity, this day I have paid my vows. 
    15: Therefore I am come out to meet thee, desirous to see thee, and I have found thee.
    16: I have woven my bed with cords, I have covered it with painted tapestry, brought from Egypt. 
    17: I have perfumed my bed with myrrh, aloes, and cinnamon. 
    18: Come, let us be inebriated with the breasts, and let us enjoy the desired embraces, till the day appear. 
    19: For my husband is not at home, he is gone a very long journey. 
    20: He took with him a bag of money: he will return home the day of the full moon.
    21: She entangled him with many words, and drew him away with the flattery of her lips. 
    22: Immediately he followeth her as an ox led to be a victim, and as a lamb playing the wanton, and not knowing that he is drawn like a fool to bonds, 
    23: Till the arrow pierce his liver: as if a bird should make haste to the snare, and knoweth not that his life is in danger. 
    24: Now therefore, my son, hear me, and attend to the words of my mouth. 
    25: Let not thy mind be drawn away in her ways: neither be thou deceived with her paths.
    26: For she hath cast down many wounded, and the strongest have been slain by her. 
    27: Her house is the way to hell, reaching even to the inner chambers of death.

  Chapter 8.

    1: Doth not wisdom cry aloud, and prudence put forth her voice? 
    2: Standing in the top of the highest places by the way, in the midst of the paths. 
    3: Beside the gates of the city, in the very doors she speaketh, saying: 
    4: O ye men, to you I call, and my voice is to the sons of men. 
    5: O little ones, understand subtilty, and ye unwise, take notice.
    6: Hear, for I will speak of great things: and my lips shall be opened to preach right things. 
    7: My mouth shall meditate truth, and my lips shall hate wickedness. 
    8: All my words are just, there is nothing wicked nor perverse in them. 
    9: They are right to them that understand, and just to them that find knowledge. 
    10: Receive my instruction, and not money: choose knowledge rather than gold.
    11: For wisdom is better than all the most precious things: and whatsoever may be desired cannot be compared to it. 
    12: I wisdom dwell in counsel, and am present in learned thoughts. 
    13: The fear of the Lord hateth evil: I hate arrogance, and pride, and every wicked way, and a mouth with a double tongue. 
    14: Counsel and equity is mine, prudence is mine, strength is mine. 
    15: By me kings reign, and lawgivers decree just things,
    16: By me princes rule, and the mighty decree justice. 
    17: I love them that love me: and they that in the morning early watch for me, shall find me. 
    18: With me are riches and glory, glorious riches and justice. 
    19: For my fruit is better than gold and the precious stone, and my blossoms than choice silver. 
    20: I walk in the way of justice, in the midst of the paths of judgment,
    21: That I may enrich them that love me, and may fill their treasures. 
    22: The Lord possessed me in the beginning of his ways, before he made any thing from the beginning. 
    23: I was set up from eternity, and of old before the earth was made. 
    24: The depths were not as yet, and I was already conceived. neither had the fountains of waters as yet sprung out: 
    25: The mountains with their huge bulk had not as yet been established: before the hills I was brought forth:
    26: He had not yet made the earth, nor the rivers, nor the poles of the world. 
    27: When he prepared the heavens, I was present: when with a certain law and compass he enclosed the depths: 
    28: When he established the sky above, and poised the fountains of waters: 
    29: When he compassed the sea with its bounds, and set a law to the waters that they should not pass their limits: when be balanced the foundations of the earth; 
    30: I was with him forming all things: and was delighted every day, playing before him at all times;
    31: Playing in the world: and my delights were to be with the children of men. 
    32: Now therefore, ye children, hear me: Blessed are they that keep my ways. 
    33: Hear instruction and be wise, and refuse it not. 
    34: Blessed is the man that heareth me, and that watcheth daily at my gates, and waiteth at the posts of my doors. 
    35: He that shall find me, shall find life, and shall have salvation from the Lord:
    36: But he that shall sin against me, shall hurt his own soul. All that hate me love death.

End of day 183.