Day 320:

Reading 1-Corinthians, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: Am not I free? Am not I an apostle? Have not I seen Christ Jesus our Lord? Are not you my work in the Lord? 
    2: And if unto others I be not an apostle, but yet to you I am. For you are the seal of my apostleship in the Lord. 
    3: My defence with them that do examine me is this. 
    4: Have not we power to eat and to drink? 
    5: Have we not power to carry about a woman, a sister, as well as the rest of the apostles, and the brethren of the Lord, and Cephas?
    6: Or I only and Barnabas, have not we power to do this? 
    7: Who serveth as a soldier at any time, at his own charges? Who planteth a vineyard, and eateth not of the fruit thereof? Who feedeth the flock, and eateth not of the milk of the flock? 
    8: Speak I these things according to man? Or doth not the law also say these things? 
    9: For it is written in the law of Moses: Thou shalt not muzzle the mouth of the ox that treadeth out the corn. Doth God take care for oxen? 
    10: Or doth he say this indeed for our sakes? For these things are written for our sakes: that he that plougheth, should plough in hope; and he that thrasheth, in hope to receive fruit.
    11: If we have sown unto you spiritual things, is it a great matter if we reap your carnal things? 
    12: If others be partakers of this power over you, why not we rather? Nevertheless, we have not used this power: but we bear all things, lest we should give any hindrance to the gospel of Christ. 
    13: Know you not, that they who work in the holy place, eat the things that are of the holy place; and they that serve the altar, partake with the altar? 
    14: So also the Lord ordained that they who preach the gospel, should live by the gospel. 
    15: But I have used none of these things. Neither have I written these things, that they should be so done unto me: for it is good for me to die, rather than that any man should make my glory void.
    16: For if I preach the gospel, it is no glory to me, for a necessity lieth upon me: for woe is unto me if I preach not the gospel. 
    17: For if I do this thing willingly, I have a reward: but if against my will, a dispensation is committed to me: 
    18: What is my reward then? That preaching the gospel, I may deliver the gospel without charge, that I abuse not my power in the gospel. 
    19: For whereas I was free as to all, I made myself the servant of all, that I might gain the more. 
    20: And I became to the Jews, a Jew, that I might gain the Jews:
    21: To them that are under the law, as if I were under the law, (whereas myself was not under the law,) that I might gain them that were under the law. To them that were without the law, as if I were without the law, (whereas I was not without the law of God, but was in the law of Christ,) that I might gain them that were without the law. 
    22: To the weak I became weak, that I might gain the weak. I became all things to all men, that I might save all. 
    23: And I do all things for the gospel's sake: that I may be made partaker thereof. 
    24: Know you not that they that run in the race, all run indeed, but one receiveth the prize? So run that you may obtain. 
    25: And every one that striveth for the mastery, refraineth himself from all things: and they indeed that they may receive a corruptible crown; but we an incorruptible one.
    26: I therefore so run, not as at an uncertainty: I so fight, not as one beating the air: 
    27: But I chastise my body, and bring it into subjection: lest perhaps, when I have preached to others, I myself should become a castaway.

  Chapter 10.

    1: For I would not have you ignorant, brethren, that our fathers were all under the cloud, and all passed through the sea. 
    2: And all in Moses were baptized, in the cloud, and in the sea: 
    3: And did all eat the same spiritual food, 
    4: And all drank the same spiritual drink; (and they drank of the spiritual rock that followed them, and the rock was Christ.) 
    5: But with most of them God was not well pleased: for they were overthrown in the desert.
    6: Now these things were done in a figure of us, that we should not covet evil things as they also coveted. 
    7: Neither become ye idolaters, as some of them, as it is written: The people sat down to eat and drink, and rose up to play. 
    8: Neither let us commit fornication, as some of them committed fornication, and there fell in one day three and twenty thousand. 
    9: Neither let us tempt Christ: as some of them tempted, and perished by the serpents. 
    10: Neither do you murmur: as some of them murmured, and were destroyed by the destroyer.
    11: Now all these things happened to them in figure: and they are written for our correction, upon whom the ends of the world are come. 
    12: Wherefore he that thinketh himself to stand, let him take heed lest he fall. 
    13: Let no temptation take hold on you, but such as is human. And God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that which you are able: but will make also with temptation issue, that you may be able to bear it. 
    14: Wherefore, my dearly beloved, fly from the service of idols. 
    15: I speak as to wise men: judge ye yourselves what I say.
    16: The chalice of benediction, which we bless, is it not the communion of the blood of Christ? And the bread, which we break, is it not the partaking of the body of the Lord? 
    17: For we, being many, are one bread, one body, all that partake of one bread. 
    18: Behold Israel according to the flesh: are not they, that eat of the sacrifices, partakers of the altar? 
    19: What then? Do I say, that what is offered in sacrifice to idols, is any thing? Or, that the idol is any thing? 
    20: But the things which the heathens sacrifice, they sacrifice to devils, and not to God. And I would not that you should be made partakers with devils.
    21: You cannot drink the chalice of the Lord, and the chalice of devils: you cannot be partakers of the table of the Lord, and of the table of devils. 
    22: Do we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than he? All things are lawful for me, but all things are not expedient. 
    23: All things are lawful for me, but all things do not edify. 
    24: Let no man seek his own, but that which is another's. 
    25: Whatsoever is sold in the shambles, eat; asking no question for conscience' sake.
    26: The earth is the Lord's, and the fulness thereof. 
    27: If any of them that believe not, invite you, and you will be willing to go; eat of any thing that is set before you, asking no question for conscience' sake. 
    28: But if any man say: This has been sacrificed to idols, do not eat of it for his sake that told it, and for conscience' sake. 
    29: Conscience, I say, not thy own, but the other's. For why is my liberty judged by another man's conscience? 
    30: If I partake with thanksgiving, why am I evil spoken of, for that for which I give thanks?
    31: Therefore, whether you eat or drink, or whatsoever else you do, do all to the glory of God. 
    32: Be without offence to the Jews, and to the Gentiles, and to the church of God: 
    33: As I also in all things please all men, not seeking that which is profitable to myself, but to many, that may be saved.

  Chapter 11.

    1: Be ye followers of me, as I also am of Christ. 
    2: Now I praise you, brethren, that in all things you are mindful of me: and keep my ordinances as I have delivered them to you. 
    3: But I would have you know, that the head of every man is Christ; and the head of the woman is the man; and the head of Christ is God. 
    4: Every man praying or prophesying with his head covered, disgraceth his head. 
    5: But every woman praying or prophesying with her head not covered, disgraceth her head: for it is all one as if she were shaven.
    6: For if a woman be not covered, let her be shorn. But if it be a shame to a woman to be shorn or made bald, let her cover her head. 
    7: The man indeed ought not to cover his head, because he is the image and glory of God; but the woman is the glory of the man. 
    8: For the man is not of the woman, but the woman of the man. 
    9: For the man was not created for the woman, but the woman for the man. 
    10: Therefore ought the woman to have a power over her head, because of the angels.
    11: But yet neither is the man without the woman, nor the woman without the man, in the Lord. 
    12: For as the woman is of the man, so also is the man by the woman: but all things of God. 
    13: You yourselves judge: doth it become a woman, to pray unto God uncovered? 
    14: Doth not even nature itself teach you, that a man indeed, if he nourish his hair, it is a shame unto him? 
    15: But if a woman nourish her hair, it is a glory to her; for her hair is given to her for a covering.
    16: But if any man seem to be contentious, we have no such custom, nor the church of God. 
    17: Now this I ordain: not praising you, that you come together not for the better, but for the worse. 
    18: For first of all I hear that when you come together in the church, there are schisms among you; and in part I believe it. 
    19: For there must be also heresies: that they also, who are approved, may be made manifest among you. 
    20: When you come therefore together into one place, it is not now to eat the Lord's supper.
    21: For every one taketh before his own supper to eat. And one indeed is hungry and another is drunk. 
    22: What, have you not houses to eat and to drink in? Or despise ye the church of God; and put them to shame that have not? What shall I say to you? Do I praise you? In this I praise you not. 
    23: For I have received of the Lord that which also I delivered unto you, that the Lord Jesus, the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread. 
    24: And giving thanks, broke, and said: Take ye, and eat: this is my body, which shall be delivered for you: this do for the commemoration of me. 
    25: In like manner also the chalice, after he had supped, saying: This chalice is the new testament in my blood: this do ye, as often as you shall drink, for the commemoration of me.
    26: For as often as you shall eat this bread, and drink the chalice, you shall shew the death of the Lord, until he come. 
    27: Therefore whosoever shall eat this bread, or drink the chalice of the Lord unworthily, shall be guilty of the body and of the blood of the Lord. 
    28: But let a man prove himself: and so let him eat of that bread, and drink of the chalice. 
    29: For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth and drinketh judgment to himself, not discerning the body of the Lord. 
    30: Therefore are there many infirm and weak among you, and many sleep.
    31: But if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged. 
    32: But whilst we are judged, we are chastised by the Lord, that we be not condemned with this world. 
    33: Wherefore, my brethren, when you come together to eat, wait for one another. 
    34: If any man be hungry, let him eat at home; that you come not together unto judgment. And the rest I will set in order, when I come.

  Chapter 12.

    1: Now concerning spiritual things, my brethren, I would not have you ignorant. 
    2: You know that when you were heathens, you went to dumb idols, according as you were led. 
    3: Wherefore I give you to understand, that no man, speaking by the Spirit of God, saith Anathema to Jesus. And no man can say the Lord Jesus, but by the Holy Ghost. 
    4: Now there are diversities of graces, but the same Spirit; 
    5: And there are diversities of ministries, but the same Lord;
    6: And there are diversities of operations, but the same God, who worketh all in all. 
    7: And the manifestation of the Spirit is given to every man unto profit. 
    8: To one indeed, by the Spirit, is given the word of wisdom: and to another, the word of knowledge, according to the same Spirit; 
    9: To another, faith in the same spirit; to another, the grace of healing in one Spirit; 
    10: To another, the working of miracles; to another, prophecy; to another, the discerning of spirits; to another, diverse kinds of tongues; to another, interpretation of speeches.
    11: But all these things one and the same Spirit worketh, dividing to every one according as he will. 
    12: For as the body is one, and hath many members; and all the members of the body, whereas they are many, yet are one body, so also is Christ. 
    13: For in one Spirit were we all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Gentiles, whether bond or free; and in one Spirit we have all been made to drink. 
    14: For the body also is not one member, but many. 
    15: If the foot should say, because I am not the hand, I am not of the body; is it therefore not of the body?
    16: And if the ear should say, because I am not the eye, I am not of the body; is it therefore not of the body? 
    17: If the whole body were the eye, where would be the hearing? If the whole were hearing, where would be the smelling? 
    18: But now God hath set the members every one of them in the body as it hath pleased him. 
    19: And if they all were one member, where would be the body? 
    20: But now there are many members indeed, yet one body.
    21: And the eye cannot say to the hand: I need not thy help; nor again the head to the feet: I have no need of you. 
    22: Yea, much more those that seem to be the more feeble members of the body, are more necessary. 
    23: And such as we think to be the less honourable members of the body, about these we put more abundant honour; and those that are our uncomely parts, have more abundant comeliness. 
    24: But our comely parts have no need: but God hath tempered the body together, giving to that which wanted the more abundant honour, 
    25: That there might be no schism in the body; but the members might be mutually careful one for another.
    26: And if one member suffer any thing, all the members suffer with it; or if one member glory, all the members rejoice with it. 
    27: Now you are the body of Christ, and members of member. 
    28: And God indeed hath set some in the church; first apostles, secondly prophets, thirdly doctors; after that miracles; then the graces of healing, helps, governments, kinds of tongues, interpretations of speeches. 
    29: Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all doctors? 
    30: Are all workers of miracles? Have all the grace of healing? Do all speak with tongues? Do all interpret?
    31: But be zealous for the better gifts. And I shew unto you yet a more excellent way.

End of day 320.