Day 177:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['133', '134', '135', '136']:

  Chapter 133.

    1: Behold now bless ye the Lord, all ye servants of the Lord: Who stand in the house of the Lord, in the courts of the house of our God. 
    2: In the nights lift up your hands to the holy places, and bless ye the Lord. 
    3: May the Lord out of Sion bless thee, he that made heaven and earth.

  Chapter 134.

    1: Praise ye the name of the Lord: O you his servants, praise the Lord: 
    2: You that stand in the house of the Lord, in the courts of the house of our God. 
    3: Praise ye the Lord, for the Lord is good: sing ye to his name, for it is sweet. 
    4: For the Lord hath chosen Jacob unto himself: Israel for his own possession. 
    5: For I have known that the Lord is great, and our God is above all gods.
    6: Whatsoever the Lord hath pleased he hath done, in heaven, in earth, in the sea, and in all the deeps. 
    7: He bringeth up clouds from the end of the earth: he hath made lightnings for the rain. He bringeth forth winds out of his stores: 
    8: He slew the firstborn of Egypt from man even unto beast. 
    9: He sent forth signs and wonders in the midst of thee, O Egypt: upon Pharao, and upon all his servants. 
    10: He smote many nations, and slew mighty kings:
    11: Sehon king of the Amorrhites, and Og king of Basan, and all the kingdoms of Chanaan. 
    12: And gave their land for an inheritance, for an inheritance to his people Israel. 
    13: Thy name, O Lord, is for ever: thy memorial, O Lord, unto all generations. 
    14: For the Lord will judge his people, and will be entreated in favour of his servants. 
    15: The idols of the Gentiles are silver and gold, the works of men's hands.
    16: They have a mouth, but they speak not: they have eyes, but they see not. 
    17: They have ears, but they hear not: neither is there any breath in their mouths. 
    18: Let them that make them be like to them: and every one that trusteth in them. 
    19: Bless the Lord, O house of Israel: bless the Lord, O house of Aaron. 
    20: Bless the Lord, O house of Levi: you that fear the Lord, bless the Lord.
    21: Blessed be the Lord out of Sion, who dwelleth in Jerusalem.

  Chapter 135.

    1: Praise the Lord, for he is good: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
    2: Praise ye the God of gods: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
    3: Praise ye the Lord of lords: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
    4: Who alone doth great wonders: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
    5: Who made the heavens in understanding: for his mercy endureth for ever.
    6: Who established the earth above the waters: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
    7: Who made the great lights: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
    8: The sun to rule over the day: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
    9: The moon and the stars to rule the night: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
    10: Who smote Egypt with their firstborn: for his mercy endureth for ever.
    11: Who brought Israel from among them: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
    12: With a mighty hand and a stretched out arm: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
    13: Who divided the Red Sea into parts: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
    14: And brought out Israel through the midst thereof: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
    15: And overthrew Pharao and his host in the Red Sea: for his mercy endureth for ever.
    16: Who led his people through the desert: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
    17: Who smote great kings: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
    18: And slew strong kings: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
    19: Sehon king of the Amorrhites: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
    20: And Og king of Basan: for his mercy endureth for ever.
    21: And he gave their land for an inheritance: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
    22: For an inheritance to his servant Israel: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
    23: For he was mindful of us in our affliction: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
    24: And he redeemed us from our enemies: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
    25: Who giveth food to all flesh: for his mercy endureth for ever.
    26: Give glory to the God of heaven: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
    27: Give glory to the Lord of lords: for his mercy endureth for ever.

  Chapter 136.

    1: Upon the rivers of Babylon, there we sat and wept: when we remembered Sion: 
    2: On the willows in the midst thereof we hung up our instruments. 
    3: For there they that led us into captivity required of us the words of songs. And they that carried us away, said: Sing ye to us a hymn of the songs of Sion. 
    4: How shall we sing the song of the Lord in a strange land? 
    5: If I forget thee, O Jerusalem, let my right hand be forgotten.
    6: Let my tongue cleave to my jaws, if I do not remember thee: If I make not Jerusalem the beginning of my joy. 
    7: Remember, O Lord, the children of Edom, in the day of Jerusalem: Who say: Rase it, rase it, even to the foundation thereof. 
    8: O daughter of Babylon, miserable: blessed shall he be who shall repay thee thy payment which thou hast paid us. 
    9: Blessed be he that shall take and dash thy little ones against the rock.

End of day 177.