Day 164:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['81', '82', '83', '84']:

  Chapter 81.

    1: A psalm for Asaph. God hath stood in the congregation of gods: and being in the midst of them he judgeth gods. 
    2: How long will you judge unjustly: and accept the persons of the wicked? 
    3: Judge for the needy and fatherless: do justice to the humble and the poor. 
    4: Rescue the poor; and deliver the needy out of the hand of the sinner. 
    5: They have not known nor understood: they walk on in darkness: all the foundations of the earth shall be moved.
    6: I have said: You are gods and all of you the sons of the most High. 
    7: But you like men shall die: and shall fall like one of the princes. 
    8: Arise, O God, judge thou the earth: for thou shalt inherit among all the nations.

  Chapter 82.

    1: A canticle of a psalm for Asaph. 
    2: O God, who shall be like to thee? hold not thy peace, neither be thou still, O God. 
    3: For lo, thy enemies have made a noise: and they that hate thee have lifted up the head. 
    4: They have taken a malicious counsel against thy people, and have consulted against thy saints. 
    5: They have said: Come and let us destroy them, so that they be not a nation: and let the name of Israel be remembered no more.
    6: For they have contrived with one consent: they have made a covenant together against thee, 
    7: The tabernacles of the Edomites, and the Ismahelites: Moab, and the Agarens, 
    8: Gebal, and Ammon and Amalec: the Philistines, with the inhabitants of Tyre. 
    9: Yea, and the Assyrian also is joined with them: they are come to the aid of the sons of Lot. 
    10: Do to them as thou didst to Madian and to Sisara: as to Jabin at the brook of Cisson.
    11: Who perished at Endor: and became as dung for the earth. 
    12: Make their princes like Oreb, and Zeb, and Zebee, and Salmana. All their princes, 
    13: Who have said: Let us possess the sanctuary of God for an inheritance. 
    14: O my God, make them like a wheel; and as stubble before the wind. 
    15: As fire which burneth the wood: and as a flame burning mountains:
    16: So shalt thou pursue them with thy tempest: and shalt trouble them in thy wrath. 
    17: Fill their faces with shame; and they shall seek thy name, O Lord. 
    18: Let them be ashamed and troubled for ever and ever: and let them be confounded and perish. 
    19: And let them know that the Lord is thy name: thou alone art the most High over all the earth.

  Chapter 83.

    1: Unto the end, for the winepresses, a psalm for the sons of Core. 
    2: How lovely are thy tabernacles, O Lord of host! 
    3: My soul longeth and fainteth for the courts of the Lord. My heart and my flesh have rejoiced in the living God. 
    4: For the sparrow hath found herself a house, and the turtle a nest for herself where she may lay her young ones: Thy altars, O Lord of hosts, my king and my God. 
    5: Blessed are they that dwell in thy house, O Lord: they shall praise thee for ever and ever.
    6: Blessed is the man whose help is from thee: in his heart he hath disposed to ascend by steps, 
    7: In the vale of tears, in the place which he hath set. 
    8: For the lawgiver shall give a blessing, they shall go from virtue to virtue: the God of gods shall be seen in Sion. 
    9: O Lord God of hosts, hear my prayer: give ear, O God of Jacob. 
    10: Behold, O God our protector: and look on the face of thy Christ.
    11: For better is one day in thy courts above thousands. I have chosen to be an abject in the house of my God, rather than to dwell in the tabernacles of sinners. 
    12: For God loveth mercy and truth: the Lord will give grace and glory. 
    13: He will not deprive of good things them that walk in innocence: O Lord of hosts, blessed is the man that trusteth in thee.

  Chapter 84.

    1: Unto the end, for the sons of Core, a psalm. 
    2: Lord, thou hast blessed thy land: thou hast turned away the captivity of Jacob. 
    3: Thou hast forgiven the iniquity of thy people: thou hast covered all their sins. 
    4: Thou hast mitigated all thy anger: thou hast turned away from the wrath of thy indignation. 
    5: Convert us, O God our saviour: and turn off thy anger from us.
    6: Wilt thou be angry with us for ever: or wilt thou extend thy wrath from generation to generation? 
    7: Thou wilt turn, O God, and bring us to life: and thy people shall rejoice in thee. 
    8: shew us, O Lord, thy mercy; and grant us thy salvation. 
    9: I will hear what the Lord God will speak in me: for he will speak peace unto his people: And unto his saints: and unto them that are converted to the heart. 
    10: Surely his salvation is near to them that fear him: that glory may dwell in our land.
    11: Mercy and truth have met each other: justice and peace have kissed. 
    12: Truth is sprung out of the earth: and justice hath looked down from heaven. 
    13: For the Lord will give goodness: and our earth shall yield her fruit. 
    14: Justice shall walk before him: and shall set his steps in the way.

End of day 164.