Day 265:

Reading Hosea, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: Rejoice not, O Israel: rejoice not as the nations do: for thou hast committed fornication against thy God, thou hast loved a reward upon every cornfloor. 
    2: The floor and the winepress shall not feed them, and the wine shall deceive them. 
    3: They shall not dwell in the Lord's land: Ephraim is returned to Egypt, and hath eaten unclean things among the Assyrians. 
    4: They shall not offer wine to the Lord, neither shall they please him: their sacrifices shall be like the bread of mourners: all that shall eat it shall be defiled: for their bread is life for their soul, it shall not enter into the house of the Lord. 
    5: What will you do in the solemn day, in the day of the feast of the Lord?
    6: For behold they are gone because of destruction: Egypt shall gather them together, Memphis shall bury them: nettles shall inherit their beloved silver, the bur shall be in their tabernacles. 
    7: The days of visitation are come, the days of repaying are come: know ye, O Israel, that the prophet was foolish, the spiritual man was mad, for the multitude of thy iniquity, and the multitude of thy madness. 
    8: The watchman of Ephraim was with my God: the prophet is become a snare of ruin upon all his ways, madness is in the house of his God. 
    9: They have sinned deeply, as in the days of Gabaa: he will remember their iniquity, and will visit their sin. 
    10: I found Israel like grapes in the desert, I saw their fathers like the firstfruits of the fig tree in the top thereof: but they went in to Beelphegor, and alienated themselves to that confusion, and became abominable, as those things were, which they loved.
    11: As for Ephraim, their glory hath flown away like a bird from the birth, and from the womb, and from the conception. 
    12: And though they should bring up their children, I will make them without children among men: yea, and woe to them, when I shall depart from them. 
    13: Ephraim, as I saw, was a Tyre founded in beauty: and Ephraim shall bring out his children to the murderer. 
    14: Give them, O Lord. What wilt thou give them? Give them a womb without children, and dry breasts. 
    15: All their wickedness is in Galgal, for there I hated them: for the wickedness of their devices I will cast them forth out of my house: I will love them no more, all their princes are revolters.
    16: Ephraim is struck, their root is dried up, they shall yield no fruit. And if they should have issue, I will slay the best beloved fruit of their womb. 
    17: My God will cast them away, because they hearkened not to him: and they shall be wanderers among the nations.

  Chapter 10.

    1: Israel a vine full of branches, the fruit is agreeable to it: according to the multitude of his fruit he hath multiplied altars, according to the plenty of his land he hath abounded with idols. 
    2: Their heart is divided: now they shall perish: he shall break down their idols, he shall destroy their altars. 
    3: For now they shall say: We have no king: because we fear not the Lord: and what shall a king do to us? 
    4: You speak words of an unprofitable vision, and you shall make a covenant: and judgment shall spring up as bitterness in the furrows of the field. 
    5: The inhabitants of Samaria have worshipped the kine of Bethaven: for the people thereof have mourned over it, and the wardens of its temple that rejoiced over it in its glory because it is departed from it.
    6: For itself also is carried into Assyria, a present to the avenging king: shame shall fall upon Ephraim, and Israel shall be confounded in his own will. 
    7: Samaria hath made her king to pass as froth upon the face of the water. 
    8: And the high places of the idol, the sin of Israel shall be destroyed: the bur and the thistle shall grow up over their altars: and they shall say to the mountains: Cover us; and to the hills: Fall upon us. 
    9: From the days of Gabaa, Israel hath sinned, there they stood: the battle in Gabaa against the children of iniquity shall not overtake them. 
    10: According to my desire I will chastise them: and the nations shall be gathered together against them, when they shall be chastised for their two iniquities.
    11: Ephraim is a heifer taught to love to tread out corn, but I passed over upon the beauty of her neck: I will ride upon Ephraim, Juda shall plough, Jacob shall break the furrows for himself. 
    12: Sow for yourselves in justice, and reap in the mouth of mercy, break up your fallow ground: but the time to seek the Lord is, when he shall come that shall teach you justice. 
    13: You have ploughed wickedness, you have reaped iniquity, you have eaten the fruit of lying: because thou hast trusted in thy ways, in the multitude of thy strong ones. 
    14: A tumult shall arise among thy people: and all thy fortresses shall be destroyed as Salmana was destroyed, by the house of him that judged Baal in the day of battle, the mother being dashed in pieces upon her children. 
    15: So hath Bethel done to you, because of the evil of your iniquities.

  Chapter 11.

    1: As the morning passeth, so hath the king of Israel passed away. Because Israel was a child, and I loved him: and I called my son out of Egypt. 
    2: As they called them, they went away from before their face: they offered victims to Baalim, and sacrificed to idols. 
    3: And I was like a foster father to Ephraim, I carried them in my arms: and they knew not that I healed them. 
    4: I will draw them with the cords of Adam, with the bands of love: and I will be to them as one that taketh off the yoke on their jaws: and I put his meat to him that he might eat. 
    5: He shall not return into the land of Egypt, but the Assyrian shall be his king: because they would not be converted.
    6: The sword hath begun in his cities, and it shall consume his chosen men, and shall devour their heads. 
    7: And my people shall long for my return: but a yoke shall be put upon them together, which shall not be taken off. 
    8: How shall I deal with thee, O Ephraim, shall I protect thee, O Israel? how shall I make thee as Adama, shall I set thee as Seboim? my heart is turned within me, my repentance is stirred up. 
    9: I will not execute the fierceness of my wrath: I will not return to destroy Ephraim: because I am God, and not man: the holy one in the midst of thee, and I will not enter into the city. 
    10: They shall walk after the Lord, he shall roar as a lion: because he shall roar, and the children of the sea shall fear.
    11: And they shall fly away like a bird out of Egypt, and like a dove out of the land of the Assyrians: and I will place them in their own houses, saith the Lord. 
    12: Ephraim hath compassed me about with denials, and the house of Israel with deceit: but Juda went down as a witness with God, and is faithful with the saints.

  Chapter 12.

    1: Ephraim feedeth on the wind, and followeth the burning heat: all the day long he multiplied lies and desolation: and he hath made a covenant with the Assyrians, and carried oil into Egypt. 
    2: Therefore there is a judgment of the Lord with Juda, and a visitation for Jacob: he will render to him according to his ways, and according to his devices. 
    3: In the womb he supplanted his brother: and by his strength he had success with an angel. 
    4: And he prevailed over the angel, and was strengthened: he wept, and made supplication to him: he found him in Bethel, and there he spoke with us. 
    5: Even the Lord the God of hosts, the Lord is his memorial.
    6: Therefore turn thou to thy God: keep mercy and judgment, and hope in thy God always. 
    7: He is like Chanaan, there is a deceitful balance in his hand, he hath loved oppression. 
    8: And Ephraim said: But yet I am become rich, I have found me an idol: all my labours shall not find me the iniquity that I have committed. 
    9: And I that am the Lord thy God from the land of Egypt, will yet cause thee to dwell in tabernacles, as in the days of the feast. 
    10: And I have spoken by the prophets, and I have multiplied visions, and I have used similitudes by the ministry of the prophets.
    11: If Galaad be an idol, then in vain were they in Galgal offering sacrifices with bullocks: for their altars also are as heaps in the furrows of the field. 
    12: Jacob fled into the country of Syria, and Israel served for a wife, and was a keeper for a wife. 
    13: But the Lord by a prophet brought Israel out of Egypt: and he was preserved by a prophet. 
    14: Ephraim hath provoked me to wrath with his bitterness, and his blood shall come upon him, and his Lord will render his reproach unto him.

End of day 265.