Day 78:

Reading 1-Kings, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: And it came to pass when Solomon had finished the building of the house of the Lord, and the king's house, and all that he desired, and was pleased to do, 
    2: That the Lord appeared to him the second time, as he had appeared to him in Gabaon. 
    3: And the Lord said to him: I have heard thy prayer and thy supplication, which thou hast made before me: I have sanctified this house, which thou hast built, to put my name there for ever, and my eyes and my heart shall be there always. 
    4: And if thou wilt walk before me, as thy father walked, in simplicity of heart, and in uprightness: and wilt do all that I have commanded thee, and wilt keep my ordinances and my judgments, 
    5: I will establish the throne of thy kingdom over Israel for ever, as I promised David thy father, saying: There shall not fail a man of thy race upon the throne of Israel.
    6: But if you and your children revolting shall turn away from following me, and will not keep my commandments, and my ceremonies, which I have set before you, but will go and worship strange gods, and adore them: 
    7: I will take away Israel from the face of the land which I have given them; and the temple which I have sanctified to my name, I will cast out of my sight; and Israel shall be a proverb, and a byword among all people. 
    8: And this house shall be made an example of: every one that shall pass by it, shall be astonished, and shall hiss, and say: Why hath the Lord done thus to this land, and to this house: 
    9: And they shall answer: Because they forsook the Lord their God, who brought their fathers out of the land of Egypt, and followed strange gods, and adored them, and worshipped them: therefore hath the Lord brought upon them all this evil. 
    10: And when twenty years were ended after Solomon had built the two houses, that is, the house of the Lord, and the house of the king,
    11: (Hiram the king of Tyre furnishing Solomon with cedar trees and fir trees, and gold according to all he had need of.) then Solomon gave Hiram twenty cities in the land of Galilee. 
    12: And Hiram came out of Tyre, to see the towns which Solomon had given him, and they pleased him not, 
    13: And he said: Are these the cities which thou hast given me, brother? And he called them the land of Chabul, unto this day. 
    14: And Hiram sent to king Solomon a hundred and twenty talents of gold. 
    15: This is the sum of the expenses, which king Solomon offered to build the house of the Lord, and his own house, and Mello, and the wall of Jerusalem, and Heser, and Mageddo, and Gazer.
    16: Pharao the king of Egypt came up and took Gazer, and burnt it with fire: and slew the Chanaanite that dwelt in the city, and gave it for a dowry to his daughter, Solomon's wife. 
    17: So Solomon built: Gazer, and Beth-horon the nether, 
    18: And Baalath, and Palmira in the land of the wilderness. 
    19: And all the towns that belonged to himself, and were not walled, he fortified, the cities also of the chariots, and the cities of the horsemen, and whatsoever he had a mind to build in Jerusalem, and in Libanus, and in all the land of his dominion. 
    20: All the people that were left of the Amorrhites, and Hethites, and Pherezites, and Hevites, and Jebusites, that are not of the children of Israel:
    21: Their children, that were left in the land, to wit, such as the children of Israel had not been able to destroy, Solomon made tributary unto this day. 
    22: But of the children of Israel Solomon made not any to be bondmen, but they were men of war, and his servants, and his princes, and captains, and overseers of the chariots and horses. 
    23: And there were five hundred and fifty chief officers set over all the works of Solomon, and they had people under them, and had charge over the appointed works. 
    24: And the daughter of Pharao came up out of the city of David to her house, which Solomon had built for her: then did he build Mello. 
    25: Solomon also offered three times every year holocausts, and victims of peace offerings upon the altar which he had built to the Lord, and he burnt incense before the Lord: and the temple was finished.
    26: And king Solomon made a fleet in Asiongaber, which is by Ailath on the shore of the Red Sea in the land of Edom. 
    27: And Hiram sent his servants in the fleet, sailors that had knowledge of the sea, with the servants of Solomon. 
    28: And they came to Ophir, and they brought from thence to king Solomon four hundred and twenty talents of gold.

  Chapter 10.

    1: And the queen of Saba, having; heard of the fame of Solomon in the name of the Lord, came to try him with hard questions. 
    2: And entering into Jerusalem with a great train, and riches, and camels that carried spices, and an immense quantity of gold, and precious stones, she came to king Solomon, and spoke to him all that she had in her heart. 
    3: And Solomon informed her of all the things she proposed to him: there was not any word the king was ignorant of, and which he could not answer her. 
    4: And when the queen of Saba saw all the wisdom of Solomon, and the house which he had built, 
    5: And the meat of his table, and the apartments of his servants, and the order of his ministers, and their apparel, and the cupbearers, and the holocausts, which he offered in the house of the Lord: she had no longer any spirit in her,
    6: And she said to the king: The report is true, which I heard in my own country, 
    7: Concerning thy words, and concerning thy wisdom. And I did not believe them that told me, till I came myself, and saw with my own eyes, and have found that the half hath not been told me: thy wisdom and thy works, exceed the fame which I heard. 
    8: Blessed are thy men, and blessed are thy servants, who stand before thee always, and hear thy wisdom. 
    9: Blessed be the Lord thy God, whom thou hast pleased, and who hath set thee upon the throne of Israel, because the Lord hath loved Israel for ever, and hath appointed thee king, to do judgment and justice. 
    10: And she gave the king a hundred and twenty talents of gold, and of spices a very great store, and precious stones: there was brought no more such abundance of spices as these which the queen of Saba gave to king Solomon.
    11: (The navy also of Hiram, which brought gold from Ophir, brought from Ophir great plenty of thyine trees, and precious stones. 
    12: And the king made of the thyine trees the rails of the house of the Lord, and of the king's house, and citterns and harps for singers: there were no such thyine trees as these brought, nor seen unto this day.) 
    13: And king Solomon gave the queen of Saba all that she desired, and asked of him: besides what he offered he himself of his royal bounty. And she returned, and went to her own country with her servants. 
    14: And the weight of the gold that was brought to Solomon every year, was six hundred and sixty-six talents of gold: 
    15: Besides that which the men brought him that were over the tributes, and the merchants, and they that sold by retail, and all the kings of Arabia, and the governors of the country.
    16: And Solomon made two hundred shields of the purest gold: he allowed six hundred sides of gold for the plates of one shield. 
    17: And three hundred targets of fine gold: three hundred pounds of gold covered one target: and the king put them in the house of the forest of Libanus. 
    18: King Solomon also made a great throne of ivory: and overlaid it with the finest gold. 
    19: It had six steps: and the top of the throne was round behind: and there were two hands on either side holding the seat: and two lions stood, one at each hand. 
    20: And twelve little lions stood upon the six steps on the one side and on the other: there was no such work made in any kingdom.
    21: Moreover all the vessels, out of which king Solomon drank, were of gold: and all the furniture of the house of the forest of Libanus was of most pure gold: there was no silver, nor was any account made of it in the days of Solomon: 
    22: For the king's navy, once in three years, went with the navy of Hiram by sea to Tharsis, and brought from thence gold, and silver, and elephants' teeth, and apes, and peacocks. 
    23: And king Solomon exceeded all the kings of the earth in riches, and wisdom. 
    24: And all the earth desired to see Solomon's face, to hear his wisdom, which God had given in his heart. 
    25: And every one brought him presents, vessels of silver and of gold, garments and armour, and spices, and horses and mules every year.
    26: And Solomon gathered together chariots and horsemen, and he had a thousand four hundred chariots, and twelve thousand horseman: and he bestowed them in fenced cities, and with the king in Jerusalem. 
    27: And he made silver to be as plentiful in Jerusalem as stones: and cedars to be as common as sycamores which grow in the plains. 
    28: And horses were brought for Solomon out of Egypt, and Coa: for the king's merchants brought them out of Coa, and bought them at a set price. 
    29: And a chariot of four horses came out of Egypt, for six hundred sides of silver, and a horse for a hundred and fifty. And after this manner did all the kings of the Hethites, and of Syria, sell horses.

  Chapter 11.

    1: And king Solomon loved many strange women besides the daughter of Pharao, and women of Moab, and of Ammon, and of Edom, and of Sidon, and of the Hethites: 
    2: Of the nations concerning which the Lord said to the children of Israel: You shall not go in unto them, neither shall any of them come in to yours: for they will most certainly turn away your heart to follow their gods. And to these was Solomon joined with a most ardent love. 
    3: And he had seven hundred wives as queens, and three hundred concubines: and the women turned away his heart. 
    4: And when he was now old, his heart was turned away by women to follow strange gods: and his heart was not perfect with the Lord his God, as was the heart of David his father. 
    5: But Solomon worshipped Astarthe the goddess of the Sidonians, and Moloch the idol of the ammonites.
    6: And Solomon did that which was net pleasing before the Lord, and did not fully follow the Lord, as David his father. 
    7: Then Solomon built a temple for Chamos the idol of Moab, on the hill that is over against Jerusalem, and for Moloch the idol of the children of Ammon. 
    8: And he did in this manner for all his wives that were strangers, who burnt incense, and offered sacrifice to their gods. 
    9: And the Lord was angry with Solomon, because his mind was turned away from the Lord the God of Israel, who had appeared to him twice, 
    10: And had commanded him concerning this thing, that he should not follow strange gods: but he kept not the things which the Lord commanded him.
    11: The Lord therefore said to Solomon: Because thou hast done this, and hast not kept my covenant, and my precepts, which I have commanded thee, I will divide and rend thy kingdom, and will give it to thy servant. 
    12: Nevertheless in thy days I will not do it, for David thy father's sake: but I will rend it out of the hand of thy son. 
    13: Neither will I take away the whole kingdom, but I will give one tribe to thy son for the sake of David my servant, and Jerusalem which I have chosen. 
    14: And the Lord raised up an adversary to Solomon, Adad the Edomite of the king's seed, in Edom. 
    15: For when David was in Edom, and Joab the general of the army was gone up to bury them that were slain, and had killed every male in Edom,
    16: (For Joab remained there six months with all Israel, till he had slain every male in Edom,) 
    17: Then Adad fled, he and certain Edomites, of his father's servants with him, to go into Egypt: and Adad was then a little boy. 
    18: And they arose out of Madian, and came into Pharan, and they took men with them from Pharan, and went into Egypt to Pharao the king of Egypt: who gave him a house, and appointed him victuals, and assigned him land. 
    19: And Adad found great favour before Pharao, insomuch that he gave him to wife, the own sister of his wife Taphnes the queen. 
    20: And the sister of Taphnes bore him his son Genubath, and Taphnes brought him up in the house of Pharao: and Genubath dwelt with Pharao among his children.
    21: And when Adad heard in Egypt that David slept with his fathers, and that Joab the general of the army was dead, he said to Pharao: Let me depart, that I may go to my own country. 
    22: And Pharao said to him: Why, what is wanting to thee with me, that thou seekest to go to thy own country? But he answered: Nothing: yet I beseech thee to let me go. 
    23: God also raised up against him an adversary, Razon the son of Eliada, who had fled from his master Adarezer the king of Soba: 
    24: And he gathered men against him, and he became a captain of robbers, when David slew them of Soba: and they went to Damascus, and dwelt there, and they made him king in Damascus. 
    25: And he was an adversary to Israel, all the days of Solomon: and this is the evil of Adad, and his hatred against Israel, and he reigned in Syria.
    26: Jeroboam also the son of Nabat an Ephrathite of Sareda, a servant of Solomon, whose mother was named Sarua, a widow woman, lifted up his hand against the king. 
    27: And this is the cause of his rebellion against him, for Solomon built Mello, and filled up the breach of the city of David his father. 
    28: And Jeroboam was a valiant and mighty man: and Solomon seeing him a young man ingenious and industrious, made him chief over the tributes of all the house of Joseph. 
    29: So it came to paste at that time, that Jeroboam went out of Jerusalem, and the prophet Ahias the Silonite, clad with a new garment, found him in the way: and they two were alone in the held. 
    30: And Ahias taking his new garment, wherewith he was clad, divided it into twelve parts:
    31: And he said to Jeroboam: Take to thee ten pieces: for thus saith the Lord the God of Israel: Behold I will rend the kingdom out of the hand of Solomon, and will give thee ten tribes. 
    32: But one tribe shall remain to him for the sake of my servant David, and Jerusalem the city, which I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel: 
    33: Because he hath forsaken me, and hath adored Astarthe the goddess of the Sidonians, and Chamos the god of Moab, and Moloch the god of the children of Ammon: and hath not walked in my ways, to do justice before me, and to keep my precepts, and judgments as did David his father. 
    34: Yet I will not take away all the kingdom out of his hand, but I will make him prince all the days of his life, for David my servant's sake, whom I chose, who kept my commandments and my precepts. 
    35: But I will take away the kingdom out of his son's hand and will give thee ten tribes:
    36: And to his son I will give one tribe, that there may remain a lamp for my servant David before me always in Jerusalem the city which I have chosen, that my name might be there. 
    37: And I will take thee, and thou shalt reign over all that thy soul desireth, and thou shalt be king over Israel. 
    38: If then thou wilt hearken to all that I shall command thee, and wilt walk in my ways, and do what is right before me, keeping my commandments and my precepts, as David my servant did: I will be with thee, and will build thee up a faithful house, as I built a house for David, and I will deliver Israel to thee: 
    39: And I will for this afflict the seed of David, but yet not for ever. 
    40: Solomon therefore sought to kill Jeroboam: but he arose, and fled into Egypt to Sesac the king of Egypt, and was in Egypt till the death of Solomon.
    41: And the rest of the words of Solomon, and all that he did, and his wisdom: behold they are all written in the book of the words of the days of Solomon. 
    42: And the days that Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel, were forty years. 
    43: And Solomon slept with his fathers, and was buried in the city of David his father, and Roboam his son reigned in his stead.

  Chapter 12.

    1: And Roboam went to Sichem: for thither were all Israel come together to make him king. 
    2: But Jeroboam the son of Nabat, who was yet in Egypt, a fugitive from the face of king Solomon, hearing of his death, returned out of Egypt. 
    3: And they sent and called him: and Jeroboam came, and all the multitude of Israel, and they spoke to Roboam, saying: 
    4: Thy father laid a grievous yoke upon us: now therefore do thou take off a little of the grievous service of thy father, and of his most heavy yoke, which he put upon us, and we will serve thee. 
    5: And he said to them: Go till the third day, and come to me again. And when the people was gone,
    6: King Roboam took counsel with the old men, that stood before Solomon his father while he yet lived, and he said: What counsel do you give me, that I may answer this people? 
    7: They said to him: If thou wilt yield to this people today, and condescend to them, and grant their petition, and wilt speak gentle words to them, they will be thy servants always. 
    8: But he left the counsel of the old men, which they had given him, and consulted with the young men, that had been brought up with him, and stood before him. 
    9: And he said to them: What counsel do you give me, that I may answer this people, who have said to me: Make the yoke which thy father put upon us lighter? 
    10: And the young men that had been brought up with him, said: Thus shalt thou speak to this people, who have spoken to thee, saying: Thy father made our yoke heavy, do thou ease us. Thou shalt say to them: My little finger is thicker than the back of my father.
    11: And now my father put a, heavy yoke upon you, but I will add to your yoke: my father beat you with whips, but I will beat you with scorpions. 
    12: So Jeroboam and all the people came to Roboam the third day, as the king had appointed, saying: Come to me again the third day. 
    13: And the king answered the people roughly, leaving the counsel of the old men, which they had given him, 
    14: And he spoke to them according to the counsel of the young men, saying: My father made your yoke heavy, but I will add to your yoke: my father beat you with whips, but I will beat you with scorpions. 
    15: And the king condescended not to the people: for the Lord was turned away from him, to make good his word, which he had spoken in the hand of Ahias the Silonite, to Jeroboam the son of Nabat.
    16: Then the people seeing that the king would not hearken to them, answered him, saying: What portion have we in David? or what inheritance in the son of Isai? Go home to thy dwellings, O Israel, now David look to thy own house. So Israel departed to their dwellings. 
    17: But as for all the children of Israel that dwelt in the cities of Juda, Roboam reigned over them. 
    18: Then king Roboam sent Aduram, who was over the tribute: and all Israel stoned him, and he died. Wherefore king Roboam made haste to get him up into his chariot, and he fled to Jerusalem: 
    19: And Israel revolted from the house of David, unto this day. 
    20: And it came to pass when all Israel heard that Jeroboam was come again, that they gathered an assembly, and sent and called him, and made him king over all Israel, and there was none that followed the house of David but the tribe of Juda only.
    21: And Roboam came to Jerusalem, and gathered together all the house of Juda, and the tribe of Benjamin, a hundred four-score thousand chosen men for war, to fight against the house of Israel and to bring the kingdom again under Roboam the son of Solomon. 
    22: But the word of the Lord came to Semeias the man of God, saying: 
    23: Speak to Roboam the son of Solomon, the king of Juda, and to all the house of Juda, and Benjamin, and the rest of the people, saying: 
    24: Thus saith the Lord: You shall not go up nor fight against your brethren the children of Israel: let every man return to his house, for this thing is from me. They hearkened to the word of the Lord, and returned from their journey, as the Lord had commanded them. 
    25: And Jeroboam built Sichem in mount Ephraim, and dwelt there, and going out from thence he built Phanuel.
    26: And Jeroboam said in his heart: Now shall the kingdom return to the house of David, 
    27: If this people go up to offer sacrifices in the house of the Lord at Jerusalem: and the heart of this people will turn to their lord Roboam the king of Juda, and they will kill me, and return to him. 
    28: And finding out a device he made two golden calves, and said to them: Go ye up no more to Jerusalem: Behold thy gods, O Israel, who brought thee out of the land of Egypt. 
    29: And he set the one in Bethel, and the other in Dan: 
    30: And this thing became an occasion of sin: for the people went to adore the calf as far as Dan.
    31: And he made temples in the high places, and priests of the lowest of the people, who were not of the sons of Levi. 
    32: And he appointed a feast in the eighth month, on the fifteenth day of the month, after the manner of the feast that was celebrated in Juda. And going up to the altar, he did in like manner in Bethel, to sacrifice to the calves, which he had made: and he placed in Bethel priests of the high places, which he had made. 
    33: And he went up to the altar, which he had built in Bethel, on the fifteenth day of the eighth month, which he had devised of his own heart: and he ordained a feast to the children of Israel, and went upon the altar to burn incense.

End of day 78.