Day 19:

Reading Exodus, chapters ['21', '22', '23', '24']:

  Chapter 21.

    1: These are the judgments which thou shalt set before them. 
    2: If thou buy a Hebrew servant, six years shall he serve thee: in the seventh he shall go out free for nothing. 
    3: With what raiment he came in, with the like let him go out: if having a wife, his wife also shall go out with him. 
    4: But if his master gave him a wife, and she hath borne sons and daughters: the woman and her children shall be her master's: but he himself shall go out with his raiment. 
    5: And if the servant shall say: I love my master and my wife and children, I will not go out free:
    6: His master shall bring him to the gods, and he shall be set to the door and the posts, and he shall bore his ear through with an awl: and he shall be his servant for ever. 
    7: If any man sell his daughter to be a servant, she shall not go out as bondwomen are wont to go out. 
    8: If she displease the eyes of her master to whom she was delivered, he shall let her go: but he shall have no power to sell her to a foreign nation, if he despise her. 
    9: But if he have betrothed her to his son, he shall deal with her after the manner of daughters. 
    10: And if he take another wife for him, he shall provide her a marriage, and raiment, neither shall he refuse the price of her chastity.
    11: If he do not these three things, she shall go out free without money. 
    12: He that striketh a man with a will to kill him, shall be put to death. 
    13: But he that did not lie in wait for him, but God delivered him into his hands: I will appoint thee a place to which he must flee. 
    14: If a man kill his neighbour on set purpose and by lying in wait for him: thou shalt take him away from my altar, that he may die. 
    15: He that striketh his father or mother, shall be put to death.
    16: He that shall steal a man, and sell him, being convicted of guilt, shall be put to death. 
    17: He that curseth his father, or mother, shall die the death. 
    18: If men quarrel, and the one strike his neighbour with a stone or with his fist, and he die not, but keepeth his bed: 
    19: If he rise again and walk abroad upon his staff, he that struck him shall be quit, yet so that he make restitution for his work, and for his expenses upon the physicians. 
    20: He that striketh his bondman or bondwoman with a rod, and they die under his hands, shall be guilty of the crime.
    21: But if the party remain alive a day or two, he shall not be subject to the punishment, because it is his money. 
    22: If men quarrel, and one strike a woman with child, and she miscarry indeed, but live herself: he shall be answerable for so much damage as the woman's husband shall require, and as arbiters shall award. 
    23: But if her death ensue thereupon, he shall render life for life. 
    24: Eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot, 
    25: Burning for burning, wound for wound, stripe for stripe.
    26: If any man strike the eye of his manservant or maidservant, and leave them but one eye, he shall let them go free for the eye which he put out. 
    27: Also if he strike out a tooth of his manservant or maidservant, he shall in like manner make them free. 
    28: If an ox gore a man or a woman, and they die, he shall be stoned: and his flesh shall not be eaten, but the owner of the ox shall be quit. 
    29: But if the ox was wont to push with his horn yesterday and the day before, and they warned his master, and he did not shut him up, and he shall kill a man or a woman: then the ox shall be stoned, an his owner also shall be put to death. 
    30: And if they set a price upon him, he shall give for his life whatsoever is laid upon him.
    31: If he have gored a son, or a daughter, he shall fall under the like sentence. 
    32: If he assault a bondman or a bond woman, he shall give thirty sicles of silver to their master, and the ox shall be stoned. 
    33: If a man open a pit, and dig one, and cover it not, and an ox or an ass fall into it, 
    34: The owner of the pit shall pay the price of the beasts: and that which is dead shall be his own. 
    35: If one man's ox gore another man's ox, and he die: they shall sell the live ox, and shall divide the price, and the carcass of that which died they shall part between them:
    36: But if he knew that his ox was wont to push yesterday and the day before, and his master did not keep him in: he shall pay ox for ox, and shall take the whole carcass.

  Chapter 22.

    1: If any man steal an ox or a sheep, and kill or sell it: he shall restore five oxen for one ox, and four sheep for one sheep. 
    2: If a thief be found breaking open a house or undermining it, and be wounded so as to die: he that slew him shall not be guilty of blood. 
    3: But if he did this when the sun is risen, he hath committed murder, and he shall die. If he have not wherewith to make restitution for the theft, he shall be sold. 
    4: If that which he stole be found with him, alive, either ox, or ass, or sheep: he shall restore double. 
    5: If any man hurt a field or a vineyard, and put in his beast to feed upon that which is other men's: he shall restore the best of whatsoever he hath in his own field, or in his vineyard, according to the estimation of the damage.
    6: If a fire breaking out light upon thorns, and catch stacks of corn, or corn standing in the fields, he that kindled the fire shall make good the loss. 
    7: If a man deliver money, or any vessel unto his friend to keep, and they be stolen away from him that received them: if the thief be found he shall restore double: 
    8: If the thief be not known, the master of the house shall be brought to the gods, and shall swear that he did not lay his hand upon his neighbour's goods, 
    9: To do any fraud, either in ox, or in ass, or sheep, or raiment, or any thing that may bring damage: the cause of both parties shall come to the gods: and if they give judgment, he shall restore double to his neighbour. 
    10: If a man deliver ass, ox, sheep, or any beast, to his neighbour's custody, and it die, or be hurt, or be taken by enemies, and no man saw it:
    11: There shall be an oath between them, that he did not put forth his hand to his neighbour's goods: and the owner shall accept of the oath; and he shall not be compelled to make restitution. 
    12: But if it were taken away by stealth, he shall make the loss good to the owner. 
    13: If it were eaten by a beast, let him bring to him that which was slain, and he shall not make restitution. 
    14: If a man borrow of his neighbour any of these things, and it be hurt or die, the owner not being present, he shall be obliged to make restitution. 
    15: But if the owner be present, he shall not make restitution, especially if it were hired and came for the hire of his work.
    16: If a man seduce a virgin not yet espoused, and lie with her: he shall endow her, and have her to wife. 
    17: If the maid's father will not give her to him, he shall give money according to the dowry, which virgins are wont to receive. 
    18: Wizards thou shalt not suffer to live. 
    19: Whosoever copulateth with a beast shall be put to death. 
    20: He that sacrificeth to gods, shall be put to death, save only to the Lord.
    21: Thou shalt not molest a stranger, nor afflict him: for yourselves also were strangers in the land of Egypt. 
    22: You shall not hurt a widow or an orphan. 
    23: If you hurt them they will cry out to me, and I will hear their cry: 
    24: And my rage shall be enkindled, and I will strike you with the sword, and your wives shall be widows, and your children fatherless. 
    25: If thou lend money to any of my people that is poor, that dwelleth with thee, thou shalt not be hard upon them as an extortioner, nor oppress them with usuries.
    26: If thou take of thy neighbour a garment in pledge, thou shalt give it him again before sunset. 
    27: For that same is the only thing wherewith he is covered, the clothing of his body, neither hath he any other to sleep in: if he cry to me, I will hear him, because I am compassionate. 
    28: Thou shalt not speak ill of the gods, and the prince of thy people thou shalt not curse. 
    29: Thou shalt not delay to pay thy tithes and thy firstfruits: thou shalt give the firstborn of thy sons to me. 
    30: Thou shalt do the same with the firstborn of thy oxen also and sheep: seven days let it be with its dam, the eighth day thou shalt give it to me.
    31: You shall be holy men to me: the flesh that beasts have tasted of before, you shall not eat, but shall cast it to the dogs.

  Chapter 23.

    1: Thou shalt not receive the voice of a lie: neither shalt thou join thy hand to bear false witness for a wicked person. 
    2: Thou shalt not follow the multitude to do evil: neither shalt thou yield in judgment, to the opinion of the most part, to stray from the truth. 
    3: Neither shalt thou favour a poor man in judgment. 
    4: If thou meet thy enemy's ox or ass going astray, bring it back to him. 
    5: If thou see the ass of him that hateth thee lie underneath his burden, thou shalt not pass by, but shalt lift him up with him.
    6: Thou shalt not go aside in the poor man's judgment. 
    7: Thou shalt fly lying. The innocent and just person thou shalt not put to death: because I abhor the wicked. 
    8: Neither shalt thou take bribes, which even blind the wise, and pervert the words of the just. 
    9: Thou shalt not molest a stranger, for you know the hearts of strangers: for you also were strangers in the land of Egypt. 
    10: Six years thou shalt sow thy ground, and shalt gather the corn thereof.
    11: But the seventh year thou shalt let it alone, and suffer it to rest, that the poor of thy people may eat, and whatsoever shall be left, let the beasts of the field eat it: so shalt thou do with thy vineyard and thy oliveyard. 
    12: Six days thou shalt work: the seventh day thou shalt cease, that thy ox and thy ass may rest: and the son of thy handmaid and the stranger may be refreshed. 
    13: Keep all things that I have said to you. And by the name of strange gods you shall not swear, neither shall it be heard out of your mouth. 
    14: Three times every year you shall celebrate feasts to me. 
    15: Thou shalt keep the feast of unleavened bread. Seven days shalt thou eat unleavened bread, as I commanded thee, in the time of the month of new corn, when thou didst come forth out of Egypt: thou shalt not appear empty before me.
    16: And the feast of the harvest of the firstfruits of thy work, whatsoever thou hast sown in the field. The feast also in the end of the year, when thou hast gathered in all thy corn out of the field. 
    17: Thrice a year shall all thy males appear before the Lord thy God. 
    18: Thou shalt not sacrifice the blood of my victim upon leaven, neither shall the fat of my solemnity remain until the morning. 
    19: Thou shalt carry the firstfruits of the corn of thy ground to the house of the Lord thy God. Thou shalt not boil a kid in the milk of his dam. 
    20: Behold I will send my angel, who shall go before thee, and keep thee in thy journey, and bring thee into the place that I have prepared.
    21: Take notice of him, and hear his voice, and do not think him one to be contemned: for he will not forgive when thou hast sinned, and my name is in him. 
    22: But if thou wilt hear his voice, and do all that I speak, I will be an enemy to thy enemies, and will afflict them that afflict thee. 
    23: And my angel shall go before thee, and shall bring thee in unto the Amorrhite, and the Hethite, and the Pherezite, and the Chanaanite, and the Hevite, and the Jebusite, whom I will destroy. 
    24: Thou shalt not adore their gods, nor serve them. Thou shalt not do their works, but shalt destroy them, and break their statues. 
    25: And you shall serve the Lord your God, that I may bless your bread and your waters, and may take away sickness from the midst of thee.
    26: There shall not be one fruitless nor barren in thy land: I will fill the number of thy days. 
    27: I will send my fear before thee, and will destroy all the people to whom thou shalt come: and will turn the backs of all thy enemies before thee. 
    28: Sending out hornets before, that shall drive away the Hevite, and the Chanaanite, and the Hethite, before thou come in. 
    29: I will not cast them out from thy face in one year: lest the land be brought into a wilderness, and the beasts multiply against thee. 
    30: By little and little I will drive them out from before thee, till thou be increased, and dost possess the land.
    31: And I will set thy bounds from the Red Sea to the sea of the Palestines, and from the desert to the river: I will deliver the inhabitants of the land into your hands, and will drive them out from before you. 
    32: Thou shalt not enter into league with them, nor with their gods. 
    33: Let them not dwell in thy land, lest perhaps thy make thee sin against me, if thou serve their god: which undoubtedly will be a scandal to thee.

  Chapter 24.

    1: And he said to Moses: Come up to the Lord, thou, and Aaron, Nadab, and Abiu, and seventy of the ancients of Israel, and you shall adore afar off. 
    2: And Moses alone shall come up to the Lord, but they shall not come nigh; neither shall the people come up with him. 
    3: So Moses came and told the people all the words of the Lord, and all the judgments: and all the people answered with one voice: We will do all the words of the Lord, which he hath spoken. 
    4: And Moses wrote all the words of the Lord: and rising in the morning he built an altar at the foot of the mount, and twelve titles according to the twelve tribes of Israel. 
    5: And he sent young men of the children of Israel, and they offered holocausts, and sacrificed pacific victims of calves to the Lord.
    6: Then Moses took half of the blood, and put it into bowls: and the rest he poured upon the altar. 
    7: And taking the book of the covenant, he read it in the hearing of the people: and they said: All things that the Lord hath spoken we will do, we will be obedient. 
    8: And he took the blood and sprinkled it upon the people, and he said: This is the blood of the covenant which the Lord hath made with you concerning all these words. 
    9: Then Moses and Aaron, Nadab and Abiu, and seventy of the ancients of Israel went up: 
    10: And they saw the God of Israel: and under his feet as it were a work of sapphire stone, and as the heaven, when clear.
    11: Neither did he lay his hand upon those of the children of Israel, that retired afar off, and they saw God, and they did eat and drink. 
    12: And the Lord said to Moses: Come up to me into the mount, and be there: and I will give thee tables of stone, and the law, and the commandments which I have written: that thou mayst teach them. 
    13: Moses rose up, and his minister Josue: and Moses going up into the mount of God, 
    14: Said to the ancients: Wait ye here till we return to you. You have Aaron and Hur with you: if any question shall arise, you shall refer it to them. 
    15: And when Moses was gone up, a cloud covered the mount.
    16: And the glory of the Lord dwelt upon Sinai, covering it with a cloud six days: and the seventh day he called him out of the midst of the cloud. 
    17: And the sight of the glory of the Lord was like a burning fire upon the top of the mount, in the eyes of the children of Israel. 
    18: And Moses, entering into the midst of the cloud, went up into the mountain: and he was there forty days, and forty nights.

End of day 19.