Day 174:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['121', '122', '123', '124']:

  Chapter 121.

    1: I rejoiced at the things that were said to me: We shall go into the house of the Lord. 
    2: Our feet were standing in thy courts, O Jerusalem. 
    3: Jerusalem, which is built as a city, which is compact together. 
    4: For thither did the tribes go up, the tribes of the Lord: the testimony of Israel, to praise the name of the Lord. 
    5: Because their seats have sat in judgment, seats upon the house of David.
    6: Pray ye for the things that are for the peace of Jerusalem: and abundance for them that love thee. 
    7: Let peace be in thy strength: and abundance in thy towers. 
    8: For the sake of my brethren, and of my neighbours, I spoke peace of thee. 
    9: Because of the house of the Lord our God, I have sought good things for thee.

  Chapter 122.

    1: To thee have I lifted up my eyes, who dwellest in heaven. 
    2: Behold as the eyes of servants are on the hands of their masters, As the eyes of the handmaid are on the hands of her mistress: so are our eyes unto the Lord our God, until he have mercy on us. 
    3: Have mercy on us, O Lord, have mercy on us: for we are greatly filled with contempt. 
    4: For our soul is greatly filled: we are a reproach to the rich, and contempt to the proud.

  Chapter 123.

    1: If it had not been that the Lord was with us, let Israel now say: 
    2: If it had not been that the Lord was with us, When men rose up against us, 
    3: Perhaps they had swallowed us up alive. When their fury was enkindled against us, 
    4: Perhaps the waters had swallowed us up. 
    5: Our soul hath passed through a torrent: perhaps our soul had passed through a water insupportable.
    6: Blessed be the Lord, who hath not given us to be a prey to their teeth. 
    7: Our soul hath been delivered as a sparrow out of the snare of the fowlers. The snare is broken, and we are delivered. 
    8: Our help is in the name of the Lord, who made heaven and earth.

  Chapter 124.

    1: They that trust in the Lord shall be as mount Sion: he shall not be moved for ever that dwelleth 
    2: In Jerusalem. Mountains are round about it: so the Lord is round about his people from henceforth now and for ever. 
    3: For the Lord will not leave the rod of sinners upon the lot of the just: that the just may not stretch forth their hands to iniquity. 
    4: Do good, O Lord, to those that are good, and to the upright of heart. 
    5: But such as turn aside into bonds, the Lord shall lead out with the workers of iniquity: peace upon Israel.

End of day 174.