Day 307:

Reading Acts, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: The former treatise I made, O Theophilus, of all things which Jesus began to do and to teach, 
    2: Until the day on which, giving commandments by the Holy Ghost to the apostles whom he had chosen, he was taken up. 
    3: To whom also he shewed himself alive after his passion, by many proofs, for forty days appearing to them, and speaking of the kingdom of God. 
    4: And eating together with them, he commanded them, that they should not depart from Jerusalem, but should wait for the promise of the Father, which you have heard (saith he) by my mouth. 
    5: For John indeed baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost, not many days hence.
    6: They therefore who were come together, asked him, saying: Lord, wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel? 
    7: But he said to them: It is not for you to know the times or moments, which the Father hath put in his own power: 
    8: But you shall receive the power of the Holy Ghost coming upon you, and you shall be witnesses unto me in Jerusalem, and in all Judea, and Samaria, and even to the uttermost part of the earth. 
    9: And when he had said these things, while they looked on, he was raised up: and a cloud received him out of their sight. 
    10: And while they were beholding him going up to heaven, behold two men stood by them in white garments.
    11: Who also said: Ye men of Galilee, why stand you looking up to heaven? This Jesus who is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come, as you have seen him going into heaven. 
    12: Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mount that is called Olivet, which is nigh Jerusalem, within a sabbath day's journey. 
    13: And when they were come in, they went up into an upper room, where abode Peter and John, James and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and Matthew, James of Alpheus, and Simon Zelotes, and Jude the brother of James. 
    14: All these were persevering with one mind in prayer with the women, and Mary the mother of Jesus, and with his brethren. 
    15: In those days Peter rising up in the midst of the brethren, said: (now the number of persons together was about an hundred and twenty:)
    16: Men, brethren, the scripture must needs be fulfilled, which the Holy Ghost spoke before by the mouth of David concerning Judas, who was the leader of them that apprehended Jesus: 
    17: Who was numbered with us, and had obtained part of this ministry. 
    18: And he indeed hath possessed a field of the reward of iniquity, and being hanged, burst asunder in the midst: and all his bowels gushed out. 
    19: And it became known to all the inhabitants of Jerusalem: so that the same field was called in their tongue, Haceldama, that is to say, The field of blood. 
    20: For it is written in the book of Psalms: Let their habitation become desolate, and let there be none to dwell therein. And his bishopric let another take.
    21: Wherefore of these men who have companied with us all the time that the Lord Jesus came in and went out among us, 
    22: Beginning from the baptism of John, until the day wherein he was taken up from us, one of these must be made a witness with us of his resurrection. 
    23: And they appointed two, Joseph, called Barsabas, who was surnamed Justus, and Matthias. 
    24: And praying, they said: Thou, Lord, who knowest the hearts of all men, shew whether of these two thou hast chosen, 
    25: To take the place of this ministry and apostleship, from which Judas hath by transgression fallen, that he might go to his own place.
    26: And they gave them lots, and the lot fell upon Matthias, and he was numbered with the eleven apostles.

  Chapter 2.

    1: And when the days of the Pentecost were accomplished, they were all together in one place: 
    2: And suddenly there came a sound from heaven, as of a mighty wind coming, and it filled the whole house where they were sitting. 
    3: And there appeared to them parted tongues as it were of fire, and it sat upon every one of them: 
    4: And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and they began to speak with divers tongues, according as the Holy Ghost gave them to speak. 
    5: Now there were dwelling at Jerusalem, Jews, devout men, out of every nation under heaven.
    6: And when this was noised abroad, the multitude came together, and were confounded in mind, because that every man heard them speak in his own tongue. 
    7: And they were all amazed, and wondered, saying: Behold, are not all these, that speak, Galileans? 
    8: And how have we heard, every man our own tongue wherein we were born? 
    9: Parthians, and Medes, and Elamites, and inhabitants of Mesopotamia, Judea, and Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia, 
    10: Phrygia, and Pamphylia, Egypt, and the parts of Libya about Cyrene, and strangers of Rome,
    11: Jews also, and proselytes, Cretes, and Arabians: we have heard them speak in our own tongues the wonderful works of God. 
    12: And they were all astonished, and wondered, saying one to another: What meaneth this? 
    13: But others mocking, said: These men are full of new wine. 
    14: But Peter standing up with the eleven, lifted up his voice, and spoke to them: Ye men of Judea, and all you that dwell in Jerusalem, be this known to you, and with your ears receive my words. 
    15: For these are not drunk, as you suppose, seeing it is but the third hour of the day:
    16: But this is that which was spoken of by the prophet Joel: 
    17: And it shall come to pass, in the last days, (saith the Lord,) I will pour out of my Spirit upon all flesh: and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams. 
    18: And upon my servants indeed, and upon my handmaids will I pour out in those days of my spirit, and they shall prophesy. 
    19: And I will shew wonders in the heaven above, and signs on the earth beneath: blood and fire, and vapour of smoke. 
    20: The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the great and manifest day of the Lord come.
    21: And it shall come to pass, that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord, shall be saved. 
    22: Ye men of Israel, hear these words: Jesus of Nazareth, a man approved of God among you, by miracles, and wonders, and signs, which God did by him, in the midst of you, as you also know: 
    23: This same being delivered up, by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God, you by the hands of wicked men have crucified and slain. 
    24: Whom God hath raised up, having loosed the sorrows of hell, as it was impossible that he should be holden by it. 
    25: For David saith concerning him: I foresaw the Lord before my face: because he is at my right hand, that I may not be moved.
    26: For this my heart hath been glad, and my tongue hath rejoiced: moreover my flesh also shall rest in hope. 
    27: Because thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, nor suffer thy Holy One to see corruption. 
    28: Thou hast made known to me the ways of life: thou shalt make me full of joy with thy countenance. 
    29: Ye men, brethren, let me freely speak to you of the patriarch David; that he died, and was buried; and his sepulchre is with us to this present day. 
    30: Whereas therefore he was a prophet, and knew that God hath sworn to him with an oath, that of the fruit of his loins one should sit upon his throne.
    31: Foreseeing this, he spoke of the resurrection of Christ. For neither was he left in hell, neither did his flesh see corruption. 
    32: This Jesus hath God raised again, whereof all we are witnesses. 
    33: Being exalted therefore by the right hand of God, and having received of the Father the promise of the Holy Ghost, he hath poured forth this which you see and hear. 
    34: For David ascended not into heaven; but he himself said: The Lord said to my Lord, sit thou on my right hand, 
    35: Until I make thy enemies thy footstool.
    36: Therefore let all the house of Israel know most certainly, that God hath made both Lord and Christ, this same Jesus, whom you have crucified. 
    37: Now when they had heard these things, they had compunction in their heart, and said to Peter, and to the rest of the apostles: What shall we do, men and brethren? 
    38: But Peter said to them: Do penance, and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ, for the remission of your sins: and you shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost. 
    39: For the promise is to you, and to your children, and to all that are far off, whomsoever the Lord our God shall call. 
    40: And with very many other words did he testify and exhort them, saying: Save yourselves from this perverse generation.
    41: They therefore that received his word, were baptized; and there were added in that day about three thousand souls. 
    42: And they were persevering in the doctrine of the apostles, and in the communication of the breaking of bread, and in prayers. 
    43: And fear came upon every soul: many wonders also and signs were done by the apostles in Jerusalem, and there was great fear in all. 
    44: And all they that believed, were together, and had all things common. 
    45: Their possessions and goods they sold, and divided them to all, according as every one had need.
    46: And continuing daily with one accord in the temple, and breaking bread from house to house, they took their meat with gladness and simplicity of heart; 
    47: Praising God, and having favour with all the people. And the Lord increased daily together such as should be saved.

  Chapter 3.

    1: Now Peter and John went up into the temple at the ninth hour of prayer. 
    2: And a certain man who was lame from his mother's womb, was carried: whom they laid every day at the gate of the temple, which is called Beautiful, that he might ask alms of them that went into the temple. 
    3: He, when he had seen Peter and John about to go into the temple, asked to receive an alms. 
    4: But Peter with John fastening his eyes upon him, said: Look upon us. 
    5: But he looked earnestly upon them, hoping that he should receive something of them.
    6: But Peter said: Silver and gold I have none; but what I have, I give thee: In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, arise, and walk. 
    7: And taking him by the right hand, he lifted him up, and forthwith his feet and soles received strength. 
    8: And he leaping up, stood, and walked, and went in with them into the temple, walking, and leaping, and praising God. 
    9: And all the people saw him walking and praising God. 
    10: And they knew him, that it was he who sat begging alms at the Beautiful gate of the temple: and they were filled with wonder and amazement at that which had happened to him.
    11: And as he held Peter and John, all the people ran to them to the porch which is called Solomon's, greatly wondering. 
    12: But Peter seeing, made answer to the people: Ye men of Israel, why wonder you at this? or why look you upon us, as if by our strength or power we had made this man to walk? 
    13: The God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, the God of our fathers, hath glorified his Son Jesus, whom you indeed delivered up and denied before the face of Pilate, when he judged he should be released. 
    14: But you denied the Holy One and the Just, and desired a murderer to be granted unto you. 
    15: But the author of life you killed, whom God hath raised from the dead, of which we are witnesses.
    16: And in the faith of his name, this man, whom you have seen and known, hath his name strengthened; and the faith which is by him, hath given this perfect soundness in the sight of you all. 
    17: And now, brethren, I know that you did it through ignorance, as did also your rulers. 
    18: But those things which God before had shewed by the mouth of all the prophets, that his Christ should suffer, he hath so fulfilled. 
    19: Be penitent, therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out. 
    20: That when the times of refreshment shall come from the presence of the Lord, and he shall send him who hath been preached unto you, Jesus Christ,
    21: Whom heaven indeed must receive, until the times of the restitution of all things, which God hath spoken by the mouth of his holy prophets, from the beginning of the world. 
    22: For Moses said: A prophet shall the Lord your God raise up unto you of your brethren, like unto me: him you shall hear according to all things whatsoever he shall speak to you. 
    23: And it shall be, that every soul which will not hear that prophet, shall be destroyed from among the people. 
    24: And all the prophets, from Samuel and afterwards, who have spoken, have told of these days. 
    25: You are the children of the prophets, and of the testament which God made to our fathers, saying to Abraham: And in thy seed shall all the kindreds of the earth be blessed.
    26: To you first God, raising up his Son, hath sent him to bless you; that every one may convert himself from his wickedness.

  Chapter 4.

    1: And as they were speaking to the people, the priests, and the officer of the temple, and the Sadducees, came upon them, 
    2: Being grieved that they taught the people, and preached in Jesus the resurrection from the dead: 
    3: And they laid hands upon them, and put them in hold till the next day; for it was now evening. 
    4: But many of them who had heard the word, believed; and the number of the men was made five thousand. 
    5: And it came to pass on the morrow, that their princes, and ancients, and scribes, were gathered together in Jerusalem;
    6: And Annas the high priest, and Caiphas, and John, and Alexander, and as many as were of the kindred of the high priest. 
    7: And setting them in the midst, they asked: By what power, or by what name, have you done this? 
    8: Then Peter, filled with the Holy Ghost, said to them: Ye princes of the people, and ancients, hear: 
    9: If we this day are examined concerning the good deed done to the infirm man, by what means he hath been made whole: 
    10: Be it known to you all, and to all the people of Israel, that by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified, whom God hath raised from the dead, even by him this man standeth here before you whole.
    11: This is the stone which was rejected by you the builders, which is become the head of the corner. 
    12: Neither is there salvation in any other. For there is no other name under heaven given to men, whereby we must be saved. 
    13: Now seeing the constancy of Peter and of John, understanding that they were illiterate and ignorant men, they wondered; and they knew them that they had been with Jesus. 
    14: Seeing the man also who had been healed standing with them, they could say nothing against it. 
    15: But they commanded them to go aside out of the council; and they conferred among themselves,
    16: Saying: What shall we do to these men? for indeed a known miracle hath been done by them, to all the inhabitants of Jerusalem: it is manifest, and we cannot deny it. 
    17: But that it may be no farther spread among the people, let us threaten them that they speak no more in this name to any man. 
    18: And calling them, they charged them not to speak at all, nor teach in the name of Jesus. 
    19: But Peter and John answering, said to them: If it be just in the sight of God, to hear you rather than God, judge ye. 
    20: For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard.
    21: But they threatening, sent them away, not finding how they might punish them, because of the people; for all men glorified what had been done, in that which had come to pass. 
    22: For the man was above forty years old, in whom that miraculous cure had been wrought. 
    23: And being let go, they came to their own company, and related all that the chief priests and ancients had said to them. 
    24: Who having heard it, with one accord lifted up their voice to God, and said: Lord, thou art he that didst make heaven and earth, the sea, and all things that are in them. 
    25: Who, by the Holy Ghost, by the mouth of our father David, thy servant, hast said: Why did the Gentiles rage, and the people meditate vain things?
    26: The kings of the earth stood up, and the princes assembled together against the Lord and his Christ. 
    27: For of a truth there assembled together in this city against thy holy child Jesus, whom thou hast anointed, Herod, and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the people of Israel, 
    28: To do what thy hand and thy counsel decreed to be done. 
    29: And now, Lord, behold their threatenings, and grant unto thy servants, that with all confidence they may speak thy word, 
    30: By stretching forth thy hand to cures, and signs, and wonders to be done by the name of thy holy Son Jesus.
    31: And when they had prayed, the place was moved wherein they were assembled; and they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and they spoke the word of God with confidence. 
    32: And the multitude of believers had but one heart and one soul: neither did any one say that aught of the things which he possessed, was his own; but all things were common unto them. 
    33: And with great power did the apostles give testimony of the resurrection of Jesus Christ our Lord; and great grace was in them all. 
    34: For neither was there any one needy among them. For as many as were owners of lands or houses, sold them, and brought the price of the things they sold, 
    35: And laid it down before the feet of the apostles. And distribution was made to every one, according as he had need.
    36: And Joseph, who, by the apostles, was surnamed Barnabas, (which is, by interpretation, The son of consolation,) a Levite, a Cyprian born, 
    37: Having land, sold it, and brought the price, and laid it at the feet of the apostles.

End of day 307.