Day 167:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['93', '94', '95', '96']:

  Chapter 93.

    1: The Lord is the God to whom revenge belongeth: the God of revenge hath acted freely. 
    2: Lift up thyself, thou that judgest the earth: render a reward to the proud. 
    3: How long shall sinners, O Lord: how long shall sinners glory? 
    4: Shall they utter, and speak iniquity: shall all speak who work injustice? 
    5: Thy people, O Lord, they have brought low: and they have afflicted thy inheritance.
    6: They have slain the widow and the stranger: and they have murdered the fatherless. 
    7: And they have said: The Lord shall not see: neither shall the God of Jacob understand. 
    8: Understand, ye senseless among the people: and, you fools, be wise at last. 
    9: He that planted the ear, shall he not hear? or he that formed the eye, doth he not consider? 
    10: He that chastiseth nations, shall he not rebuke: he that teacheth man knowledge?
    11: The Lord knoweth the thoughts of men, that they are vain. 
    12: Blessed is the man whom thou shalt instruct, O Lord: and shalt teach him out of thy law. 
    13: That thou mayst give him rest from the evil days: till a pit be dug for the wicked. 
    14: For the Lord will not cast off his people: neither will he forsake his own inheritance. 
    15: Until justice be turned into judgment: and they that are near it are all the upright in heart.
    16: Who shall rise up for me against the evildoers? or who shall stand with me against the workers of iniquity? 
    17: Unless the Lord had been my helper, my soul had almost dwelt in hell. 
    18: If I said: My foot is moved: thy mercy, O Lord, assisted me. 
    19: According to the multitude of my sorrows in my heart, thy comforts have given joy to my soul. 
    20: Doth the seat of iniquity stick to thee, who framest labour in commandment?
    21: They will hunt after the soul of the just, and will condemn innocent blood. 
    22: But the Lord is my refuge: and my God the help of my hope. 
    23: And he will render them their iniquity: and in their malice he will destroy them: the Lord our God will destroy them.

  Chapter 94.

    1: Come let us praise the Lord with joy: let us joyfully sing to God our saviour. 
    2: Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving; and make a joyful noise to him with psalms. 
    3: For the Lord is a great God, and a great King above all gods. 
    4: For in his hand are all the ends of the earth: and the heights of the mountains are his. 
    5: For the sea is his, and he made it: and his hands formed the dry land.
    6: Come let us adore and fall down: and weep before the Lord that made us. 
    7: For he is the Lord our God: and we are the people of his pasture and the sheep of his hand. 
    8: Today if you shall hear his voice, harden not your hearts: 
    9: As in the provocation, according to the day of temptation in the wilderness: where your fathers tempted me, they proved me, and saw my works. 
    10: Forty years long was I offended with that generation, and I said: These always err in heart.
    11: And these men have not known my ways: so I swore in my wrath that they shall not enter into my rest.

  Chapter 95.

    1: A canticle for David himself, when the house was built after the captivity. Sing ye to the Lord a new canticle: sing to the Lord, all the earth. 
    2: Sing ye to the Lord and bless his name: shew forth his salvation from day to day. 
    3: Declare his glory among the Gentiles: his wonders among all people. 
    4: For the Lord is great, and exceedingly to be praised: he is to be feared above all gods. 
    5: For all the gods of the Gentiles are devils: but the Lord made the heavens.
    6: Praise and beauty are before him: holiness and majesty in his sanctuary. 
    7: Bring ye to the Lord, O ye kindreds of the Gentiles, bring ye to the Lord glory and honour: 
    8: Bring to the Lord glory unto his name. Bring up sacrifices, and come into his courts: 
    9: Adore ye the Lord in his holy court. Let all the earth be moved at his presence. 
    10: Say ye among the Gentiles, the Lord hath reigned. For he hath corrected the world, which shall not be moved: he will judge the people with justice.
    11: Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth be glad, let the sea be moved, and the fulness thereof: 
    12: The fields and all things that are in them shall be joyful. Then shall all the trees of the woods rejoice 
    13: Before the face of the Lord, because he cometh: because he cometh to judge the earth. He shall judge the world with justice, and the people with his truth.

  Chapter 96.

    1: For the same David, when his land was restored again to him. The Lord hath reigned, let the earth rejoice: let many islands be glad. 
    2: Clouds and darkness are round about him: justice and judgment are the establishment of his throne. 
    3: A fire shall go before him, and shall burn his enemies round about. 
    4: His lightnings have shone forth to the world: the earth saw and trembled. 
    5: The mountains melted like wax, at the presence of the Lord: at the presence of the Lord of all the earth.
    6: The heavens declared his justice: and all people saw his glory. 
    7: Let them be all confounded that adore graven things, and that glory in their idols. Adore him, all you his angels: 
    8: Sion heard, and was glad. And the daughters of Juda rejoiced, because of thy judgments, O Lord. 
    9: For thou art the most high Lord over all the earth: thou art exalted exceedingly above all gods. 
    10: You that love the Lord, hate evil: the Lord preserveth the souls of his saints, he will deliver them out of the hand of the sinner.
    11: Light is risen to the just, and joy to the right of heart. 
    12: Rejoice, ye just, in the Lord: and give praise to the remembrance of his holiness.

End of day 167.