Day 71:

Reading 2-Samuel, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: Then all the tribes of Israel came to David in Hebron, saying: Behold we are thy bone and thy flesh. 
    2: Moreover yesterday also and the day before, when Saul was king over us, thou wast he that did lead out and bring in Israel: and the Lord said to thee: Thou shalt feed my people Israel, and thou shalt be prince over Israel. 
    3: The ancients also of Israel came to the king to Hebron, and king David made a league with them in Hebron before the Lord: and they anointed David to be king over Israel. 
    4: David was thirty years old when he began to reign, and he reigned forty years. 
    5: In Hebron he reigned over Juda seven years and six months: and in Jerusalem he reigned three and thirty years over all Israel and Juda.
    6: And the king and all the men that were with him went to Jerusalem to the Jebusites the inhabitants of the land: and they said to David: Thou shalt not come in hither unless thou take away the blind and the lame that say: David shall not come in hither. 
    7: But David took the castle of Sion, the same is the city of David. 
    8: For David had offered that day a reward to whosoever should strike the Jebusites and get up to the gutters of the tops of the houses, and take away the blind and the lame that hated the soul of David: therefore it is said in the proverb: The blind and the lame shall not come into the temple. 
    9: And David dwelt in the castle, and called it, The city of David: and built round about from Mello and inwards. 
    10: And he went on prospering and growing up, and the Lord God of hosts was with him.
    11: And Hiram the king of Tyre sent messengers to David, and cedar trees, and carpenters, and masons for walls: and they built a house for David. 
    12: And David knew that the Lord bad confirmed him king over Israel, and that he had exalted his kingdom over his people Israel. 
    13: And David took more concubines and wives of Jerusalem, after he was come from Hebron: and there were born to David other sons also and daughters: 
    14: And these are the names of them, that were born to him in Jerusalem, Samua, and Sobab, and Nathan, and Solomon, 
    15: And Jebahar, and Elisua, and Nepheg,
    16: And Japhia, and Elisama, and Elioda, and Eliphaleth. 
    17: And the Philistines heard that they had anointed David to be king over Israel: and they all came to seek David: and when David heard of it, he went down to a strong hold. 
    18: And the Philistines coming spread themselves in the valley of Raphaim. 
    19: And David consulted the Lord, saying: Shall I go up to the Philistines? and wilt thou deliver them into my hand? And the Lord said to David: Go up, for I will surely deliver the Philistines into thy hand. 
    20: And David came to Baal Pharisim: and defeated them there, and he said: The Lord hath divided my enemies before me, as waters are divided. Therefore the name of the place was called Baal Pharisim.
    21: And they left there their idols: which David and his men took away. 
    22: And the Philistines came up again and spread themselves in the valley of Raphaim. 
    23: And David consulted the Lord: Shall I go up against the Philistines, and wilt thou deliver them into my hands? He answered: Go not up against them, but fetch a compass behind them, and thou shalt come upon them over against the pear trees. 
    24: And when thou shalt hear the sound of one going in the tops of the pear trees, then shalt thou join battle: for then will the Lord go out before thy face to strike the army of the Philistines. 
    25: And David did as the Lord had commanded him, and he smote the Philistines from Gabaa until thou come to Gezer.

  Chapter 6.

    1: And David again gathered together all the chosen men of Israel, thirty thousand. 
    2: And David arose and went, with all the people that were with him of the men of Juda to fetch the ark of God, upon which the name of the Lord of hosts is invoked, who sitteth over it upon the cherubims. 
    3: And they laid the ark of God upon a new cart: and took it out of the house of Abinadab, who was in Gabaa: and Oza, and Ahio, the sons of Abinadab, drove the new cart. 
    4: And when they had taken it out of the house of Abinadab, who was in Gabaa, Ahio having care of the ark of God went before the ark. 
    5: But David and all Israel played before the Lord on all manner of instruments made of wood, on harps and lutes and timbrels and cornets and cymbals.
    6: And when they came to the floor of Nachon, Oza put forth his hand to the ark of God, and took hold of it: because the oxen kicked and made it lean aside. 
    7: And the indignation of the Lord was enkindled against Oza, and he struck him for his rashness: and he died there before the ark of God. 
    8: And David was grieved because the Lord had struck Oza, and the name of that place was called: The striking of Oza, to this day. 
    9: And David was afraid of the Lord that day, saying: How shall the ark of the Lord come to me? 
    10: And he would not have the ark of the Lord brought in to himself into the city of David: but he caused it to be carried into the house of Obededom the Gethite.
    11: And the ark of the Lord abode in the house of Obededom the Gethite three months: and the Lord blessed Obededom, and all his household. 
    12: And it was told king David, that the Lord had blessed Obededom, and all that he had, because of the ark of God. So David went, and brought away the ark of God out of the house of Obededom into the city of David with joy. And there were with David seven choirs, and calves for victims. 
    13: And when they that carried the ark of the Lord had gone six paces, he sacrificed an ox and a ram: 
    14: And David danced with all his might before the Lord: and David was girded with a linen ephod. 
    15: And David and all the house of Israel brought the ark of the covenant of the Lord with joyful shouting, and with sound of trumpet.
    16: And when the ark of the Lord was come into the city of David, Michol the daughter of Saul, looking out through a window, saw king David leaping and dancing before the Lord: and she despised him in her heart. 
    17: And they brought the ark of the Lord, and set it in its place in the midst of the tabernacle, which David had pitched for it: and David offered holocausts, and peace offerings before the Lord. 
    18: And when he had made an end of offering holocausts and peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the Lord of hosts. 
    19: And he distributed to all the multitude of Israel both men and women, to every one, a cake of bread, and a piece of roasted beef, and fine flour fried with oil: and all the people departed every one to his house. 
    20: And David returned to bless his own house: and Michol the daughter of Saul coming out to meet David, said: How glorious was the king of Israel today, uncovering himself before the handmaids of his servants, and was naked, as if one of the buffoons should be naked.
    21: And David said to Michol: Before the Lord, who chose me rather than thy father, and than all his house, and commanded me to be ruler over the people of the Lord in Israel, 
    22: I will both play and make myself meaner than I have done: and I will be little in my own eyes: and with the handmaid of whom thou speakest, I shall appear more glorious. 
    23: Therefore Michol the daughter of Saul had no child to the day of her death.

  Chapter 7.

    1: And it came to pass when the king sat in his house, and the Lord had given him rest on every side from all his enemies, 
    2: He said to Nathan the prophet: Dost thou see that I dwell in a house of cedar, and the ark of God is lodged within skins? 
    3: And Nathan said to the king: Go, do all that is in thy heart: because the Lord is with thee. 
    4: But it came to pass that night, that the word of the Lord came to Nathan, saying: 
    5: Go, and say to my servant David: Thus saith the Lord: Shalt thou build me a house to dwell in?
    6: Whereas I have not dwelt in a house from the day that I brought the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt even to this day: but have walked in a tabernacle, and in a tent. 
    7: In all the places that I have gone through with all the children of Israel, did ever I speak a word to any one of the tribes of Israel, whom I commanded to feed my people Israel, saying: Why have you not built me a house of cedar? 
    8: And now thus shalt thou speak to my servant David: Thus saith the Lord of hosts: a I took thee out of the pastures from following the sheep to be ruler over my people Israel: 
    9: And I have been with thee wheresoever thou hast walked, and have slain all thy enemies from before thy face: and I have made thee a great man, like unto the name of the great ones that are on the earth. 
    10: And I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and I will plant them, and they shall dwell therein, and shall be disturbed no more: neither shall the children of iniquity afflict them any more as they did before,
    11: From the day that I appointed judges over my people Israel: and I will give thee rest from all thy enemies. And the Lord foretelleth to thee, that the Lord will make thee a house. 
    12: And when thy days shall be fulfilled, and thou shalt sleep with thy fathers, I will raise up thy seed after thee, which shall proceed out of thy bowels, and I will establish his kingdom. 
    13: He shall build a house to my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom for ever. 
    14: I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son: and if he commit any iniquity, I will correct him with the rod of men, and with the stripes of the children of men. 
    15: But my mercy I will not take away from him, as I took it from Saul, whom I removed from before my face.
    16: And thy house shall be faithful, and thy kingdom for ever before thy face, and thy throne shall be firm for ever. 
    17: According to all these words and according to all this vision, so did Nathan speak to David. 
    18: And David went in, and sat before the Lord, and said: Who am I, O Lord God, and what is my house, that thou hast brought me thus far? 
    19: But yet this hath seemed little in thy sight, O Lord God, unless thou didst also speak of the house of thy servant for a long time to come: for this is the law of Adam, O Lord God. 
    20: And what can David say more unto thee? for thou knowest thy servant, O Lord God:
    21: For thy word's sake, and according to thy own heart thou hast done all these great things, so that thou wouldst make it known to thy servant. 
    22: Therefore thou art magnified, O Lord God, because there is none like to thee, neither is there any God besides thee, in all the things that we have heard with our ears. 
    23: And what nation is there upon earth, as thy people Israel, whom God went to redeem for a people to himself, and to make him a name, and to do for them great and terrible things, upon the earth, before the face of thy people, whom thou redeemedst to thyself out of Egypt, from the nations and their gods. 
    24: For thou hast confirmed to thyself thy people Israel to be an everlasting people: and thou, O Lord God, art become their God. 
    25: And now, O Lord God, raise up for ever the word that thou hast spoken, concerning thy servant and concerning his house: and do as thou hast spoken,
    26: That thy name may be magnified for ever, and it may be said: The Lord of hosts is God over Israel. And the house of thy servant David shall be established before the Lord. 
    27: Because thou, O Lord of hosts, God of Israel, hast revealed to the ear of thy servant, saying: I will build thee a house: therefore hath thy servant found in his heart to pray this prayer to thee. 
    28: And now, O Lord God, thou art God, and thy words shall be true: for thou hast spoken to thy servant these good things. 
    29: And now begin, and bless the house of thy servant, that it may endure for ever before thee: because thou, O Lord God, hast spoken it, and with thy blessing let the house of thy servant be blessed for ever.

  Chapter 8.

    1: And it came to pass after this that David defeated the Philistines, and brought them down, and David took the bridle of tribute out of the hand of the Philistines. 
    2: And he defeated Moab, and measured them with a line, casting them down to the earth: and he measured with two lines, one to put to death, and one to save alive: and Moab was made to serve David under tribute. 
    3: David defeated also Adarezer the son of Rohob king of Soba, when he went to extend his dominion over the river Euphrates. 
    4: And David took from him a thousand and seven hundred horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen, and houghed all the chariot horses: and only reserved of them for one hundred chariots. 
    5: And the Syrians of Damascus came to succour Adarezer the king of Soba: and David slew of the Syrians two and twenty thousand men.
    6: And David put garrisons in Syria of Damascus: and Syria served David under tribute: and the Lord preserved David in all his enterprises, whithersoever he went. 
    7: And David took the arms of gold, which the servants of Adarezer wore, and brought them to Jerusalem. 
    8: And out of Bete, and out of Beroth, cities of Adarezer, king David took an exceeding great quantity of brass. 
    9: And Thou the king of Emath heard that David had defeated all the forces of Adarezer. 
    10: And Thou sent Joram his son to king David, to salute him, and to congratulate with him, and to return him thanks: because he had fought against Adarezer, and had defeated him. For Thou was an enemy to Adarezer, and in his hand were vessels of gold, and vessels of silver, and vessels of brass:
    11: And king David dedicated them to the Lord, together with the silver and gold that he had dedicated of all the nations, which he had subdued: 
    12: Of Syria, and of Moab, and of the children of Ammon, and of the Philistines, and of Amalec, and of the spoils of Adarezer the son of Rohob king of Soba. 
    13: David also made himself a name, when he returned after taking Syria in the valley of the saltpits, killing eighteen thousand: 
    14: And he put guards in Edom, and placed there a garrison: and all Edom was made to serve David: and the Lord preserved David in all enterprises he went about. 
    15: And David reigned over all Israel: and David did judgment and justice to all his people.
    16: And Joab the son of Sarvia was over the army: and Josaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder: 
    17: And Sadoc the son of Achitob, and Achimelech the son of Abiathar, were the priests: and Saraias was the scribe: 
    18: And Banaias the son of Joiada was over the Cerethi and Phelethi: and the sons of David were the princes.

End of day 71.