Day 302:

Reading John, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: After these things was a festival day of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. 
    2: Now there is at Jerusalem a pond, called Probatica, which in Hebrew is named Bethsaida, having five porches. 
    3: In these lay a great multitude of sick, of blind, of lame, of withered; waiting for the moving of the water. 
    4: And an angel of the Lord descended at certain times into the pond; and the water was moved. And he that went down first into the pond after the motion of the water, was made whole, of whatsoever infirmity he lay under. 
    5: And there was a certain man there, that had been eight and thirty years under his infirmity.
    6: Him when Jesus had seen lying, and knew that he had been now a long time, he saith to him: Wilt thou be made whole? 
    7: The infirm man answered him: Sir, I have no man, when the water is troubled, to put me into the pond. For whilst I am coming, another goeth down before me. 
    8: Jesus saith to him: Arise, take up thy bed, and walk. 
    9: And immediately the man was made whole: and he took up his bed, and walked. And it was the sabbath that day. 
    10: The Jews therefore said to him that was healed: It is the sabbath; it is not lawful for thee to take up thy bed.
    11: He answered them: He that made me whole, he said to me, Take up thy bed, and walk. 
    12: They asked him therefore: Who is that man who said to thee, Take up thy bed, and walk? 
    13: But he who was healed, knew not who it was; for Jesus went aside from the multitude standing in the place. 
    14: Afterwards, Jesus findeth him in the temple, and saith to him: Behold thou art made whole: sin no more, lest some worse thing happen to thee. 
    15: The man went his way, and told the Jews, that it was Jesus who had made him whole.
    16: Therefore did the Jews persecute Jesus, because he did these things on the sabbath. 
    17: But Jesus answered them: My Father worketh until now; and I work. 
    18: Hereupon therefore the Jews sought the more to kill him, because he did not only break the sabbath, but also said God was his Father, making himself equal to God. 
    19: Then Jesus answered, and said to them: Amen, amen, I say unto you, the Son cannot do any thing of himself, but what he seeth the Father doing: for what things soever he doth, these the Son also doth in like manner. 
    20: For the Father loveth the Son, and sheweth him all things which himself doth: and greater works than these will he shew him, that you may wonder.
    21: For as the Father raiseth up the dead, and giveth life: so the Son also giveth life to whom he will. 
    22: For neither doth the Father judge any man, but hath given all judgment to the Son. 
    23: That all men may honour the Son, as they honour the Father. He who honoureth not the Son, honoureth not the Father, who hath sent him. 
    24: Amen, amen I say unto you, that he who heareth my word, and believeth him that sent me, hath life everlasting; and cometh not into judgment, but is passed from death to life. 
    25: Amen, amen I say unto you, that the hour cometh, and now is, when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God, and they that hear shall live.
    26: For as the Father hath life in himself, so he hath given the Son also to have life in himself: 
    27: And he hath given him power to do judgment, because he is the Son of man. 
    28: Wonder not at this; for the hour cometh, wherein all that are in the graves shall hear the voice of the Son of God. 
    29: And they that have done good things, shall come forth unto the resurrection of life; but they that have done evil, unto the resurrection of judgment. 
    30: I cannot of myself do any thing. As I hear, so I judge: and my judgment is just; because I seek not my own will, but the will of him that sent me.
    31: If I bear witness of myself, my witness is not true. 
    32: There is another that beareth witness of me; and I know that the witness which he witnesseth of me is true. 
    33: You sent to John, and he gave testimony to the truth. 
    34: But I receive not testimony from man: but I say these things, that you may be saved. 
    35: He was a burning and a shining light: and you were willing for a time to rejoice in his light.
    36: But I have a greater testimony than that of John: for the works which the Father hath given me to perfect; the works themselves, which I do, give testimony of me, that the Father hath sent me. 
    37: And the Father himself who hath sent me, hath given testimony of me: neither have you heard his voice at any time, nor seen his shape. 
    38: And you have not his word abiding in you: for whom he hath sent, him you believe not. 
    39: Search the scriptures, for you think in them to have life everlasting; and the same are they that give testimony of me. 
    40: And you will not come to me that you may have life.
    41: I receive glory not from men. 
    42: But I know you, that you have not the love of God in you. 
    43: I am come in the name of my Father, and you receive me not: if another shall come in his own name, him you will receive. 
    44: How can you believe, who receive glory one from another: and the glory which is from God alone, you do not seek? 
    45: Think not that I will accuse you to the Father. There is one that accuseth you, Moses, in whom you trust.
    46: For if you did believe Moses, you would perhaps believe me also; for he wrote of me. 
    47: But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe my words?

  Chapter 6.

    1: After these things Jesus went over the sea of Galilee, which is that of Tiberias. 
    2: And a great multitude followed him, because they saw the miracles which he did on them that were diseased. 
    3: Jesus therefore went up into a mountain, and there he sat with his disciples. 
    4: Now the pasch, the festival day of the Jews, was near at hand. 
    5: When Jesus therefore had lifted up his eyes, and seen that a very great multitude cometh to him, he said to Philip: Whence shall we buy bread, that these may eat?
    6: And this he said to try him; for he himself knew what he would do. 
    7: Philip answered him: Two hundred pennyworth of bread is not sufficient for them, that every one may take a little. 
    8: One of his disciples, Andrew, the brother of Simon Peter, saith to him: 
    9: There is a boy here that hath five barley loaves, and two fishes; but what are these among so many? 
    10: Then Jesus said: Make the men sit down. Now there was much grass in the place. The men therefore sat down, in number about five thousand.
    11: And Jesus took the loaves: and when he had given thanks, he distributed to them that were set down. In like manner also of the fishes, as much as they would. 
    12: And when they were filled, he said to his disciples: Gather up the fragments that remain, lest they be lost. 
    13: They gathered up therefore, and filled twelve baskets with the fragments of the five barley loaves, which remained over and above to them that had eaten. 
    14: Now those men, when they had seen what a miracle Jesus had done, said: This is of a truth the prophet, that is to come into the world. 
    15: Jesus therefore, when he knew that they would come to take him by force, and make him king, fled again into the mountain himself alone.
    16: And when evening was come, his disciples went down to the sea. 
    17: And when they had gone up into a ship, they went over the sea to Capharnaum; and it was now dark, and Jesus was not come unto them. 
    18: And the sea arose, by reason of a great wind that blew. 
    19: When they had rowed therefore about five and twenty or thirty furlongs, they see Jesus walking upon the sea, and drawing nigh to the ship, and they were afraid. 
    20: But he saith to them: It is I; be not afraid.
    21: They were willing therefore to take him into the ship; and presently the ship was at the land to which they were going. 
    22: The next day, the multitude that stood on the other side of the sea, saw that there was no other ship there but one, and that Jesus had not entered into the ship with his disciples, but that his disciples were gone away alone. 
    23: But other ships came in from Tiberias; nigh unto the place where they had eaten the bread, the Lord giving thanks. 
    24: When therefore the multitude saw that Jesus was not there, nor his disciples, they took shipping, and came to Capharnaum, seeking for Jesus. 
    25: And when they had found him on the other side of the sea, they said to him: Rabbi, when camest thou hither?
    26: Jesus answered them, and said: Amen, amen I say to you, you seek me, not because you have seen miracles, but because you did eat of the loaves, and were filled. 
    27: Labour not for the meat which perisheth, but for that which endureth unto life everlasting, which the Son of man will give you. For him hath God, the Father, sealed. 
    28: They said therefore unto him: What shall we do, that we may work the works of God? 
    29: Jesus answered, and said to them: This is the work of God, that you believe in him whom he hath sent. 
    30: They said therefore to him: What sign therefore dost thou shew, that we may see, and may believe thee? What dost thou work?
    31: Our fathers did eat manna in the desert, as it is written: He gave them bread from heaven to eat. 
    32: Then Jesus said to them: Amen, amen I say to you; Moses gave you not bread from heaven, but my Father giveth you the true bread from heaven. 
    33: For the bread of God is that which cometh down from heaven, and giveth life to the world. 
    34: They said therefore unto him: Lord, give us always this bread. 
    35: And Jesus said to them: I am the bread of life: he that cometh to me shall not hunger: and he that believeth in me shall never thirst.
    36: But I said unto you, that you also have seen me, and you believe not. 
    37: All that the Father giveth to me shall come to me; and him that cometh to me, I will not cast out. 
    38: Because I came down from heaven, not to do my own will, but the will of him that sent me. 
    39: Now this is the will of the Father who sent me: that of all that he hath given me, I should lose nothing; but should raise it up again in the last day. 
    40: And this is the will of my Father that sent me: that every one who seeth the Son, and believeth in him, may have life everlasting, and I will raise him up in the last day.
    41: The Jews therefore murmured at him, because he had said: I am the living bread which came down from heaven. 
    42: And they said: Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How then saith he, I came down from heaven? 
    43: Jesus therefore answered, and said to them: Murmur not among yourselves. 
    44: No man can come to me, except the Father, who hath sent me, draw him; and I will raise him up in the last day. 
    45: It is written in the prophets: And they shall all be taught of God. Every one that hath heard of the Father, and hath learned, cometh to me.
    46: Not that any man hath seen the Father; but he who is of God, he hath seen the Father. 
    47: Amen, amen I say unto you: He that believeth in me, hath everlasting life. 
    48: I am the bread of life. 
    49: Your fathers did eat manna in the desert, and are dead. 
    50: This is the bread which cometh down from heaven; that if any man eat of it, he may not die.
    51: I am the living bread which came down from heaven. 
    52: If any man eat of this bread, he shall live for ever; and the bread that I will give, is my flesh, for the life of the world. 
    53: The Jews therefore strove among themselves, saying: How can this man give us his flesh to eat? 
    54: Then Jesus said to them: Amen, amen I say unto you: Except you eat the flesh of the Son of man, and drink his blood, you shall not have life in you. 
    55: He that eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, hath everlasting life: and I will raise him up in the last day.
    56: For my flesh is meat indeed: and my blood is drink indeed. 
    57: He that eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, abideth in me, and I in him. 
    58: As the living Father hath sent me, and I live by the Father; so he that eateth me, the same also shall live by me. 
    59: This is the bread that came down from heaven. Not as your fathers did eat manna, and are dead. He that eateth this bread, shall live for ever. 
    60: These things he said, teaching in the synagogue, in Capharnaum.
    61: Many therefore of his disciples, hearing it, said: This saying is hard, and who can hear it? 
    62: But Jesus, knowing in himself, that his disciples murmured at this, said to them: Doth this scandalize you? 
    63: If then you shall see the Son of man ascend up where he was before? 
    64: It is the spirit that quickeneth: the flesh profiteth nothing. The words that I have spoken to you, are spirit and life. 
    65: But there are some of you that believe not. For Jesus knew from the beginning, who they were that did not believe, and who he was, that would betray him.
    66: And he said: Therefore did I say to you, that no man can come to me, unless it be given him by my Father. 
    67: After this many of his disciples went back; and walked no more with him. 
    68: Then Jesus said to the twelve: Will you also go away? 
    69: And Simon Peter answered him: Lord, to whom shall we go? thou hast the words of eternal life. 
    70: And we have believed and have known, that thou art the Christ, the Son of God.
    71: Jesus answered them: Have not I chosen you twelve; and one of you is a devil? 
    72: Now he meant Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon: for this same was about to betray him, whereas he was one of the twelve.

  Chapter 7.

    1: After these things Jesus walked in Galilee; for he would not walk in Judea, because the Jews sought to kill him. 
    2: Now the Jews' feast of tabernacles was at hand. 
    3: And his brethren said to him: Pass from hence, and go into Judea; that thy disciples also may see thy works which thou dost. 
    4: For there is no man that doth any thing in secret, and he himself seeketh to be known openly. If thou do these things, manifest thyself to the world. 
    5: For neither did his brethren believe in him.
    6: Then Jesus said to them: My time is not yet come; but your time is always ready. 
    7: The world cannot hate you; but me it hateth: because I give testimony of it, that the works thereof are evil. 
    8: Go you up to this festival day, but I go not up to this festival day: because my time is not accomplished. 
    9: When he had said these things, he himself stayed in Galilee. 
    10: But after his brethren were gone up, then he also went up to the feast, not openly, but, as it were, in secret.
    11: The Jews therefore sought him on the festival day, and said: Where is he? 
    12: And there was much murmuring among the multitude concerning him. For some said: He is a good man. And others said: No, but he seduceth the people. 
    13: Yet no man spoke openly of him, for fear of the Jews. 
    14: Now about the midst of the feast, Jesus went up into the temple, and taught. 
    15: And the Jews wondered, saying: How doth this man know letters, having never learned?
    16: Jesus answered them, and said: My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. 
    17: If any man do the will of him; he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself. 
    18: He that speaketh of himself, seeketh his own glory: but he that seeketh the glory of him that sent him, he is true, and there is no injustice in him. 
    19: Did Moses not give you the law, and yet none of you keepeth the law? 
    20: Why seek you to kill me? The multitude answered, and said: Thou hast a devil; who seeketh to kill thee?
    21: Jesus answered, and said to them: One work I have done; and you all wonder: 
    22: Therefore, Moses gave you circumcision (not because it is of Moses, but of the fathers;) and on the sabbath day you circumcise a man. 
    23: If a man receive circumcision on the sabbath day, that the law of Moses may not be broken; are you angry at me because I have healed the whole man on the sabbath day? 
    24: Judge not according to the appearance, but judge just judgment. 
    25: Some therefore of Jerusalem said: Is not this he whom they seek to kill?
    26: And behold, he speaketh openly, and they say nothing to him. Have the rulers known for a truth, that this is the Christ? 
    27: But we know this man, whence he is: but when the Christ cometh, no man knoweth whence he is. 
    28: Jesus therefore cried out in the temple, teaching, and saying: You both know me, and you know whence I am: and I am not come of myself; but he that sent me, is true, whom you know not. 
    29: I know him, because I am from him, and he hath sent me. 
    30: They sought therefore to apprehend him: and no man laid hands on him, because his hour was not yet come.
    31: But of the people many believed in him, and said: When the Christ cometh, shall he do more miracles, than these which this man doth? 
    32: The Pharisees heard the people murmuring these things concerning him: and the rulers and Pharisees sent ministers to apprehend him. 
    33: Jesus therefore said to them: Yet a little while I am with you: and then I go to him that sent me. 
    34: You shall seek me, and shall not find me: and where I am, thither you cannot come. 
    35: The Jews therefore said among themselves: Whither will he go, that we shall not find him? will he go unto the dispersed among the Gentiles, and teach the Gentiles?
    36: What is this saying that he hath said: You shall seek me, and shall not find me; and where I am, you cannot come? 
    37: And on the last, and great day of the festivity, Jesus stood and cried, saying: If any man thirst, let him come to me, and drink. 
    38: He that believeth in me, as the scripture saith, Out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water. 
    39: Now this he said of the Spirit which they should receive, who believed in him: for as yet the Spirit was not given, because Jesus was not yet glorified. 
    40: Of that multitude therefore, when they had heard these words of his, some said: This is the prophet indeed.
    41: Others said: This is the Christ. But some said: Doth the Christ come out of Galilee? 
    42: Doth not the scripture say: That Christ cometh of the seed of David, and from Bethlehem the town where David was? 
    43: So there arose a dissension among the people because of him. 
    44: And some of them would have apprehended him: but no man laid hands on him. 
    45: The ministers therefore came to the chief priests and the Pharisees. And they said to them: Why have you not brought him?
    46: The ministers answered: Never did man speak like this man. 
    47: The Pharisees therefore answered them: Are you also seduced? 
    48: Hath any one of the rulers believed in him, or of the Pharisees? 
    49: But this multitude, that knoweth not the law, are accursed. 
    50: Nicodemus said to them, (he that came to him by night, who was one of them:)
    51: Doth our law judge any man, unless it first hear him, and know what he doth? 
    52: They answered, and said to him: Art thou also a Galilean? Search the scriptures, and see, that out of Galilee a prophet riseth not. 
    53: And every man returned to his own house.

  Chapter 8.

    1: And Jesus went unto mount Olivet. 
    2: And early in the morning he came again into the temple, and all the people came to him, and sitting down he taught them. 
    3: And the scribes and the Pharisees bring unto him a woman taken in adultery: and they set her in the midst, 
    4: And said to him: Master, this woman was even now taken in adultery. 
    5: Now Moses in the law commanded us to stone such a one. But what sayest thou?
    6: And this they said tempting him, that they might accuse him. But Jesus bowing himself down, wrote with his finger on the ground. 
    7: When therefore they continued asking him, he lifted up himself, and said to them: He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her. 
    8: And again stooping down, he wrote on the ground. 
    9: But they hearing this, went out one by one, beginning at the eldest. And Jesus alone remained, and the woman standing in the midst. 
    10: Then Jesus lifting up himself, said to her: Woman, where are they that accused thee? Hath no man condemned thee?
    11: Who said: No man, Lord. And Jesus said: Neither will I condemn thee. Go, and now sin no more. 
    12: Again therefore, Jesus spoke to them, saying: I am the light of the world: he that followeth me, walketh not in darkness, but shall have the light of life. 
    13: The Pharisees therefore said to him: Thou givest testimony of thyself: thy testimony is not true. 
    14: Jesus answered, and said to them: Although I give testimony of myself, my testimony is true: for I know whence I came, and whither I go: but you know not whence I come, or whither I go. 
    15: You judge according to the flesh: I judge not any man.
    16: And if I do judge, my judgment is true: because I am not alone, but I and the Father that sent me. 
    17: And in your law it is written, that the testimony of two men is true. 
    18: I am one that give testimony of myself: and the Father that sent me giveth testimony of me. 
    19: They said therefore to him: Where is thy Father? Jesus answered: Neither me do you know, nor my Father: if you did know me, perhaps you would know my Father also. 
    20: These words Jesus spoke in the treasury, teaching in the temple: and no man laid hands on him, because his hour was not yet come.
    21: Again therefore Jesus said to them: I go, and you shall seek me, and you shall die in your sin. Whither I go, you cannot come. 
    22: The Jews therefore said: Will he kill himself, because he said: Whither I go, you cannot come? 
    23: And he said to them: You are from beneath, I am from above. You are of this world, I am not of this world. 
    24: Therefore I said to you, that you shall die in your sins. For if you believe not that I am he, you shall die in your sin. 
    25: They said therefore to him: Who art thou? Jesus said to them: The beginning, who also speak unto you.
    26: Many things I have to speak and to judge of you. But he that sent me, is true: and the things I have heard of him, these same I speak in the world. 
    27: And they understood not, that he called God his Father. 
    28: Jesus therefore said to them: When you shall have lifted up the Son of man, then shall you know, that I am he, and that I do nothing of myself, but as the Father hath taught me, these things I speak: 
    29: And he that sent me, is with me, and he hath not left me alone: for I do always the things that please him. 
    30: When he spoke these things, many believed in him.
    31: Then Jesus said to those Jews, who believed him: If you continue in my word, you shall be my disciples indeed. 
    32: And you shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. 
    33: They answered him: We are the seed of Abraham, and we have never been slaves to any man: how sayest thou: you shall be free? 
    34: Jesus answered them: Amen, amen I say unto you: that whosoever committeth sin, is the servant of sin. 
    35: Now the servant abideth not in the house for ever; but the son abideth for ever.
    36: If therefore the son shall make you free, you shall be free indeed. 
    37: I know that you are the children of Abraham: but you seek to kill me, because my word hath no place in you. 
    38: I speak that which I have seen with my Father: and you do the things that you have seen with your father. 
    39: They answered, and said to him: Abraham is our father. Jesus saith to them: If you be the children of Abraham, do the works of Abraham. 
    40: But now you seek to kill me, a man who have spoken the truth to you, which I have heard of God. This Abraham did not.
    41: You do the works of your father. They said therefore to him: We are not born of fornication: we have one Father, even God. 
    42: Jesus therefore said to them: If God were your Father, you would indeed love me. For from God I proceeded, and came; for I came not of myself, but he sent me: 
    43: Why do you not know my speech? Because you cannot hear my word. 
    44: You are of your father the devil, and the desires of your father you will do. He was a murderer from the beginning, and he stood not in the truth; because truth is not in him. When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own: for he is a liar, and the father thereof. 
    45: But if I say the truth, you believe me not.
    46: Which of you shall convict me of sin? If I say the truth to you, why do you not believe me? 
    47: He that is of God, heareth the words of God. Therefore you hear them not, because you are not of God. 
    48: The Jews therefore answered, and said to him: Do not we say well that thou art a Samaritan, and hast a devil? 
    49: Jesus answered: I have not a devil: but I honour my Father, and you have dishonoured me. 
    50: But I seek not my own glory: there is one that seeketh and judgeth.
    51: Amen, amen I say to you: If any man keep my word, he shall not see death for ever. 
    52: The Jews therefore said: Now we know that thou hast a devil. Abraham is dead, and the prophets; and thou sayest: If any man keep my word, he shall not taste death for ever. 
    53: Art thou greater than our father Abraham, who is dead? and the prophets are dead. Whom dost thou make thyself? 
    54: Jesus answered: If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It is my Father that glorifieth me, of whom you say that he is your God. 
    55: And you have not known him, but I know him. And if I shall say that I know him not, I shall be like to you, a liar. But I do know him, and do keep his word.
    56: Abraham your father rejoiced that he might see my day: he saw it, and was glad. 
    57: The Jews therefore said to him: Thou art not yet fifty years old, and hast thou seen Abraham? 
    58: Jesus said to them: Amen, amen I say to you, before Abraham was made, I am. 
    59: They took up stones therefore to cast at him. But Jesus hid himself, and went out of the temple.

End of day 302.