Day 329:

Reading Ephesians, chapters ['5', '6']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: Be ye therefore followers of God, as most dear children; 
    2: And walk in love, as Christ also hath loved us, and hath delivered himself for us, an oblation and a sacrifice to God for an odour of sweetness. 
    3: But fornication, and all uncleanness, or covetousness, let it not so much as be named among you, as becometh saints: 
    4: Or obscenity, or foolish talking, or scurrility, which is to no purpose; but rather giving of thanks. 
    5: For know you this and understand, that no fornicator, or unclean, or covetous person (which is a serving of idols), hath inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God.
    6: Let no man deceive you with vain words. For because of these things cometh the anger of God upon the children of unbelief. 
    7: Be ye not therefore partakers with them. 
    8: For you were heretofore darkness, but now light in the Lord. Walk then as children of the light. 
    9: For the fruit of the light is in all goodness, and justice, and truth; 
    10: Proving what is well pleasing to God:
    11: And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove them. 
    12: For the things that are done by them in secret, it is a shame even to speak of. 
    13: But all things that are reproved, are made manifest by the light; for all that is made manifest is light. 
    14: Wherefore he saith: Rise thou that sleepest, and arise from the dead: and Christ shall enlighten thee. 
    15: See therefore, brethren, how you walk circumspectly: not as unwise,
    16: But as wise: redeeming the time, because the days are evil. 
    17: Wherefore become not unwise, but understanding what is the will of God. 
    18: And be not drunk with wine, wherein is luxury; but be ye filled with the holy Spirit, 
    19: Speaking to yourselves in psalms, and hymns, and spiritual canticles, singing and making melody in your hearts to the Lord; 
    20: Giving thanks always for all things, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, to God and the Father:
    21: Being subject one to another, in the fear of Christ. 
    22: Let women be subject to their husbands, as to the Lord: 
    23: Because the husband is the head of the wife, as Christ is the head of the church. He is the saviour of his body. 
    24: Therefore as the church is subject to Christ, so also let the wives be to their husbands in all things. 
    25: Husbands, love your wives, as Christ also loved the church, and delivered himself up for it:
    26: That he might sanctify it, cleansing it by the laver of water in the word of life: 
    27: That he might present it to himself a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle, or any such thing; but that it should be holy, and without blemish. 
    28: So also ought men to love their wives as their own bodies. He that loveth his wife, loveth himself. 
    29: For no man ever hated his own flesh; but nourisheth and cherisheth it, as also Christ doth the church: 
    30: Because we are members of his body, of his flesh, and of his bones.
    31: For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife, and they shall be two in one flesh. 
    32: This is a great sacrament; but I speak in Christ and in the church. 
    33: Nevertheless let every one of you in particular love his wife as himself: and let the wife fear her husband.

  Chapter 6.

    1: Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is just. 
    2: Honour thy father and thy mother, which is the first commandment with a promise: 
    3: That it may be well with thee, and thou mayest be long lived upon earth. 
    4: And you, fathers, provoke not your children to anger; but bring them up in the discipline and correction of the Lord. 
    5: Servants, be obedient to them that are your lords according to the flesh, with fear and trembling, in the simplicity of your heart, as to Christ:
    6: Not serving to the eye, as it were pleasing men, but, as the servants of Christ doing the will of God from the heart, 
    7: With a good will serving, as to the Lord, and not to men. 
    8: Knowing that whatsoever good thing any man shall do, the same shall he receive from the Lord, whether he be bond, or free. 
    9: And you, masters, do the same things to them, forbearing threatenings, knowing that the Lord both of them and you is in heaven; and there is no respect of persons with him. 
    10: Finally, brethren, be strengthened in the Lord, and in the might of his power.
    11: Put you on the armour of God, that you may be able to stand against the deceits of the devil. 
    12: For our wrestling is not against flesh and blood; but against principalities and powers, against the rulers of the world of this darkness, against the spirits of wickedness in the high places. 
    13: Therefore take unto you the armour of God, that you may be able to resist in the evil day, and to stand in all things perfect. 
    14: Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and having on the breastplate of justice, 
    15: And your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace:
    16: In all things taking the shield of faith, wherewith you may be able to extinguish all the fiery darts of the most wicked one. 
    17: And take unto you the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit (which is the word of God). 
    18: By all prayer and supplication praying at all times in the spirit; and in the same watching with all instance and supplication for all the saints: 
    19: And for me, that speech may be given me, that I may open my mouth with confidence, to make known the mystery of the gospel. 
    20: For which I am an ambassador in a chain, so that therein I may be bold to speak according as I ought.
    21: But that you also may know the things that concern me, and what I am doing, Tychicus, my dearest brother and faithful minister in the Lord, will make known to you all things: 
    22: Whom I have sent to you for this same purpose, that you may know the things concerning us, and that he may comfort your hearts. 
    23: Peace be to the brethren and charity with faith, from God the Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
    24: Grace be with all them that love our Lord Jesus Christ in incorruption. Amen.

End of day 329.