Day 288:

Reading Matthew, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: And after six days Jesus taketh unto him Peter and James, and John his brother, and bringeth them up into a high mountain apart: 
    2: And he was transfigured before them. And his face did shine as the sun: and his garments became white as snow. 
    3: And behold there appeared to them Moses and Elias talking with him. 
    4: And Peter answering, said to Jesus: Lord, it is good for us to be here: if thou wilt, let us make here three tabernacles, one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias. 
    5: And as he was yet speaking, behold a bright cloud overshadowed them. And lo, a voice out of the cloud, saying: This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased: hear ye him.
    6: And the disciples hearing, fell upon their face, and were very much afraid. 
    7: And Jesus came and touched them: and said to them, Arise, and fear not. 
    8: And they lifting up their eyes saw no one but only Jesus. 
    9: And as they came down from the mountain, Jesus charged them, saying: Tell the vision to no man, till the Son of man be risen from the dead. 
    10: And his disciples asked him, saying: Why then do the scribes say that Elias must come first?
    11: But he answering, said to them: Elias indeed shall come, and restore all things. 
    12: But I say to you, that Elias is already come, and they knew him not, but have done unto him whatsoever they had a mind. So also the Son of man shall suffer from them. 
    13: Then the disciples understood, that he had spoken to them of John the Baptist. 
    14: And when he was come to the multitude, there came to him a man falling down on his knees before him, saying: Lord, have pity on my son, for he is a lunatic, and suffereth much: for he falleth often into the fire, and often into the water. 
    15: And I brought him to thy disciples, and they could not cure him.
    16: Then Jesus answered and said: O unbelieving and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I suffer you? bring him hither to me. 
    17: And Jesus rebuked him, and the devil went out of him, and the child was cured from that hour. 
    18: Then came the disciples to Jesus secretly, and said: Why could not we cast him out? 
    19: Jesus said to them: Because of your unbelief. For, amen I say to you, if you have faith as a grain of mustard seed, you shall say to this mountain, Remove from hence hither, and it shall remove; and nothing shall be impossible to you. 
    20: But this kind is not cast out but by prayer and fasting.
    21: And when they abode together in Galilee, Jesus said to them: The Son of man shall be betrayed into the hands of men: 
    22: And they shall kill him, and the third day he shall rise again. And they were troubled exceedingly. 
    23: And when they were come to Capharnaum, they that received the didrachmas, came to Peter and said to him: Doth not your master pay the didrachmas? 
    24: He said: Yes. And when he was come into the house, Jesus prevented him, saying: What is thy opinion, Simon? The kings of the earth, of whom do they receive tribute or custom? of their own children, or of strangers? 
    25: And he said: Of strangers. Jesus said to him: Then the children are free.
    26: But that we may not scandalize them, go to the sea, and cast in a hook: and that fish which shall first come up, take: and when thou hast opened its mouth, thou shalt find a stater: take that, and give it to them for me and thee.

  Chapter 18.

    1: At that hour the disciples came to Jesus, saying: Who thinkest thou is the greater in the kingdom of heaven? 
    2: And Jesus calling unto him a little child, set him in the midst of them, 
    3: And said: Amen I say to you, unless you be converted, and become as little children, you shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven. 
    4: Whosoever therefore shall humble himself as this little child, he is the greater in the kingdom of heaven. 
    5: And he that shall receive one such little child in my name, receiveth me.
    6: But he that shall scandalize one of these little ones that believe in me, it were better for him that a millstone should be hanged about his neck, and that he should be drowned in the depth of the sea. 
    7: Woe to the world because of scandals. For it must needs be that scandals come: but nevertheless woe to that man by whom the scandal cometh. 
    8: And if thy hand, or thy foot scandalize thee, cut it off, and cast it from thee. It is better for thee to go into life maimed or lame, than having two hands or two feet, to be cast into everlasting fire. 
    9: And if thy eye scandalize thee, pluck it out, and cast it from thee. It is better for thee having one eye to enter into life, than having two eyes to be cast into hell fire. 
    10: See that you despise not one of these little ones: for I say to you, that their angels in heaven always see the face of my Father who is in heaven.
    11: For the Son of man is come to save that which was lost. 
    12: What think you? If a man have an hundred sheep, and one of them should go astray: doth he not leave the ninety-nine in the mountains, and go to seek that which is gone astray? 
    13: And if it so be that he find it: Amen I say to you, he rejoiceth more for that, than for the ninety-nine that went not astray. 
    14: Even so it is not the will of your Father, who is in heaven, that one of these little ones should perish. 
    15: But if thy brother shall offend against thee, go, and rebuke him between thee and him alone. If he shall hear thee, thou shalt gain thy brother.
    16: And if he will not hear thee, take with thee one or two more: that in the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may stand. 
    17: And if he will not hear them: tell the church. And if he will not hear the church, let him be to thee as the heathen and publican. 
    18: Amen I say to you, whatsoever you shall bind upon earth, shall be bound also in heaven; and whatsoever you shall loose upon earth, shall be loosed also in heaven. 
    19: Again I say to you, that if two of you shall consent upon earth, concerning any thing whatsoever they shall ask, it shall be done to them by my Father who is in heaven. 
    20: For where there are two or three gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst of them.
    21: Then came Peter unto him and said: Lord, how often shall my brother offend against me, and I forgive him? till seven times? 
    22: Jesus saith to him: I say not to thee, till seven times; but till seventy times seven times. 
    23: Therefore is the kingdom of heaven likened to a king, who would take an account of his servants. 
    24: And when he had begun to take the account, one was brought to him, that owed him ten thousand talents. 
    25: And as he had not wherewith to pay it, his lord commanded that he should be sold, and his wife and children and all that he had, and payment to be made.
    26: But that servant falling down, besought him, saying: Have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. 
    27: And the lord of that servant being moved with pity, let him go and forgave him the debt. 
    28: But when that servant was gone out, he found one of his fellow servants that owed him an hundred pence: and laying hold of him, throttled him, saying: Pay what thou owest. 
    29: And his fellow servant falling down, besought him, saying: Have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. 
    30: And he would not: but went and cast him into prison, till he paid the debt.
    31: Now his fellow servants seeing what was done, were very much grieved, and they came and told their lord all that was done. 
    32: Then his lord called him; and said to him: Thou wicked servant, I forgave thee all the debt, because thou besoughtest me: 
    33: Shouldst not thou then have had compassion also on thy fellow servant, even as I had compassion on thee? 
    34: And his lord being angry, delivered him to the torturers until he paid all the debt. 
    35: So also shall my heavenly Father do to you, if you forgive not every one his brother from your hearts.

  Chapter 19.

    1: And it came to pass when Jesus had ended these words, he departed from Galilee, and came into the coasts of Judea, beyond Jordan. 
    2: And great multitudes followed him: and he healed them there. 
    3: And there came to him the Pharisees tempting him, and saying: Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife for every cause? 
    4: Who answering, said to them: Have ye not read, that he who made man from the beginning, Made them male and female? And he said: 
    5: For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife, and they two shall be in one flesh.
    6: Therefore now they are not two, but one flesh. What therefore God hath joined together, let no man put asunder. 
    7: They say to him: Why then did Moses command to give a bill of divorce, and to put away? 
    8: He saith to them: Because Moses by reason of the hardness of your heart permitted you to put away your wives: but from the beginning it was not so. 
    9: And I say to you, that whosoever shall put away his wife, except it be for fornication, and shall marry another, committeth adultery: and he that shall marry her that is put away, committeth adultery. 
    10: His disciples say unto him: If the case of a man with his wife be so, it is not expedient to marry.
    11: Who said to them: All men take not this word, but they to whom it is given. 
    12: For there are eunuchs, who were born so from their mother's womb: and there are eunuchs, who were made so by men: and there are eunuchs, who have made themselves eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven. He that can take, let him take it. 
    13: Then were little children presented to him, that he should impose hands upon them and pray. And the disciples rebuked them. 
    14: But Jesus said to them: Suffer the little children, and forbid them not to come to me: for the kingdom of heaven is for such. 
    15: And when he had imposed hands upon them, he departed from thence.
    16: And behold one came and said to him: Good master, what good shall I do that I may have life everlasting? 
    17: Who said to him: Why asketh thou me concerning good? One is good, God. But if thou wilt enter into life, keep the commandments. 
    18: He said to him: Which? And Jesus said: Thou shalt do no murder, Thou shalt not commit adultery, Thou shalt not steal, Thou shalt not bear false witness. 
    19: Honour thy father and thy mother: and, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. 
    20: The young man saith to him: All these I have kept from my youth, what is yet wanting to me?
    21: Jesus saith to him: If thou wilt be perfect, go sell what thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come follow me. 
    22: And when the young man had heard this word, he went away sad: for he had great possessions. 
    23: Then Jesus said to his disciples: Amen, I say to you, that a rich man shall hardly enter into the kingdom of heaven. 
    24: And again I say to you: It is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of heaven. 
    25: And when they had heard this, the disciples wondered very much, saying: Who then can be saved?
    26: And Jesus beholding, said to them: With men this is impossible: but with God all things are possible. 
    27: Then Peter answering, said to him: Behold we have left all things, and have followed thee: what therefore shall we have? 
    28: And Jesus said to them: Amen, I say to you, that you, who have followed me, in the regeneration, when the Son of man shall sit on the seat of his majesty, you also shall sit on twelve seats judging the twelve tribes of Israel. 
    29: And every one that hath left house, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands for my name's sake, shall receive an hundredfold, and shall possess life everlasting. 
    30: And many that are first, shall be last: and the last shall be first.

  Chapter 20.

    1: The kingdom of heaven is like to an householder, who went out early in the morning to hire labourers into his vineyard. 
    2: And having agreed with the labourers for a penny a day, he sent them into his vineyard. 
    3: And going out about the third hour, he saw others standing in the market place idle. 
    4: And he said to them: Go you also into my vineyard, and I will give you what shall be just. 
    5: And they went their way. And again he went out about the sixth and the ninth hour, and did in like manner.
    6: But about the eleventh hour he went out and found others standing, and he saith to them: Why stand you here all the day idle? 
    7: They say to him: Because no man hath hired us. He saith to them: Go you also into my vineyard. 
    8: And when evening was come, the lord of the vineyard saith to his steward: Call the labourers and pay them their hire, beginning from the last even to the first. 
    9: When therefore they were come, that came about the eleventh hour, they received every man a penny. 
    10: But when the first also came, they thought that they should receive more: and they also received every man a penny.
    11: And receiving it they murmured against the master of the house, 
    12: Saying: These last have worked but one hour, and thou hast made them equal to us, that have borne the burden of the day and the heats. 
    13: But he answering said to one of them: Friend, I do thee no wrong: didst thou not agree with me for a penny? 
    14: Take what is thine, and go thy way: I will also give to this last even as to thee. 
    15: Or, is it not lawful for me to do what I will? is thy eye evil, because I am good?
    16: So shall the last be first, and the first last. For many are called, but few chosen. 
    17: And Jesus going up to Jerusalem, took the twelve disciples apart, and said to them: 
    18: Behold we go up to Jerusalem, and the Son of man shall be betrayed to the chief priests and the scribes, and they shall condemn him to death. 
    19: And shall deliver him to the Gentiles to be mocked, and scourged, and crucified, and the third day he shall rise again. 
    20: Then came to him the mother of the sons of Zebedee with her sons, adoring and asking something of him.
    21: Who said to her: What wilt thou? She saith to him: Say that these my two sons may sit, the one on thy right hand, and the other on thy left, in thy kingdom. 
    22: And Jesus answering, said: You know not what you ask. Can you drink the chalice that I shall drink? They say to him: We can. 
    23: He saith to them: My chalice indeed you shall drink; but to sit on my right or left hand, is not mine to give to you, but to them for whom it is prepared by my Father. 
    24: And the ten hearing it, were moved with indignation against the two brethren. 
    25: But Jesus called them to him, and said: You know that the princes of the Gentiles lord it over them; and they that are the greater, exercise power upon them.
    26: It shall not be so among you: but whosoever will be the greater among you, let him be your minister: 
    27: And he that will be first among you, shall be your servant. 
    28: Even as the Son of man is not come to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a redemption for many. 
    29: And when they went out from Jericho, a great multitude followed him. 
    30: And behold two blind men sitting by the way side, heard that Jesus passed by, and they cried out, saying: O Lord, thou son of David, have mercy on us.
    31: And the multitude rebuked them that they should hold their peace. But they cried out the more, saying: O Lord, thou son of David, have mercy on us. 
    32: And Jesus stood, and called them, and said: What will ye that I do to you? 
    33: They say to him: Lord, that our eyes be opened. 
    34: And Jesus having compassion on them, touched their eyes. And immediately they saw, and followed him.

End of day 288.