Day 16:

Reading Exodus, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: And the Lord said to Moses: Go in to Pharao, and speak to him: Thus saith the Lord God of the Hebrews: Let my people go to sacrifice to me. 
    2: But if thou refuse, and withhold them still: 
    3: Behold my hand shall be upon thy fields: and a very grievous murrain upon thy horses, and asses, and camels, and oxen, and sheep. 
    4: And the Lord will make a wonderful difference between the possessions of Israel and the possessions of the Egyptians, that nothing at all shall die of those things that belong to the children of Israel. 
    5: And the Lord appointed a time, saying: Tomorrow will the Lord do this thing in the land.
    6: The Lord therefore did this thing the next day: and all the beasts of the Egyptians died, but of the beasts of the children of Israel there died not one. 
    7: And Pharao sent to see: and there was not any thing dead of that which Israel possessed. And Pharao's heart was hardened, and he did not let the people go. 
    8: And the Lord said to Moses and Aaron: Take to you handfuls of ashes out of the chimney, and let Moses sprinkle it in the air in the presence of Pharao. 
    9: And be there dust upon all the land of Egypt: for there shall be boils and swelling blains both in men and beasts in the whole land of Egypt. 
    10: And they took ashes out of the chimney, and stood before Pharao, and Moses sprinkled it in the air: and there came boils with swelling blains in men and beasts.
    11: Neither could the magicians stand before Moses for the boils that were upon them, and in all the land of Egypt. 
    12: And the Lord hardened Pharao's heart, and he hearkened not unto them, as the Lord had spoken to Moses. 
    13: And the Lord said to Moses: Arise in the morning, and stand before Pharao, and thou shalt say to him: Thus saith the Lord the God of the Hebrews: Let my people go to sacrifice to me. 
    14: For I will at this time send all my plagues upon thy heart, and upon thy servants, and upon thy people: that thou mayst know there is none like me in all the earth. 
    15: For now I will stretch out my hand to strike thee, and thy people with pestilence, and thou shalt perish from the earth.
    16: And therefore have I raised thee, that I may shew my power in thee, and my name may be spoken of throughout all the earth. 
    17: Dost thou yet hold back my people: and wilt thou not let them go? 
    18: Behold I will cause it to rain tomorrow at this same hour, an exceeding great hail: such as hath not been in Egypt from the day that it was founded, until this present time. 
    19: Send therefore now presently, and gather together thy cattle, and all that thou hast in the field: for men and beasts, and all things that shall be found abroad, and not gathered together out of the fields, which the hail shall fall upon, shall die. 
    20: He that feared the word of the Lord among Pharao's servants, made his servants and his cattle flee into houses:
    21: But he that regarded not the word of the Lord, left his servants and his cattle in the fields: 
    22: And the Lord said to Moses: Stretch forth thy hand towards heaven, that there may be hail in the whole land of Egypt, upon men, and upon beasts, and upon every herb of the field in the land of Egypt. 
    23: And Moses stretched forth his rod towards heaven, and the Lord sent thunder and hail, and lightning running along the ground: and the Lord rained hail upon the land of Egypt. 
    24: And the hail and fire mixed with it drove on together: and it was of so great bigness, as never before was seen in the whole land of Egypt since that nation was founded. 
    25: And the hail destroyed through all the land of Egypt all things that were in the fields, both man and beast: and the hail smote every herb of the field, and it broke every tree of the country.
    26: Only in the land of Gessen, where the children of Israel were, the hail fell not. 
    27: And Pharao sent and called Moses and Aaron, saying to them: I have sinned this time also; the Lord is just: I and my people are wicked. 
    28: Pray ye to the Lord, that the thunderings of God and the hail may cease: that I may let you go, and that you may stay here no longer. 
    29: Moses said: As soon as I am gone out of the city, I will stretch forth my hands to the Lord, and the thunders shall cease, and the hail shall be no more: that thou mayst know that the earth is the Lord's. 
    30: But I know that neither thou, nor thy servants do yet fear the Lord God.
    31: The flax therefore and the barley were hurt, because the barley was green, and the flax was now boiled: 
    32: But the wheat, and other winter corn were not hurt, because they were lateward. 
    33: And when Moses was gone from Pharao out of the city, he stretched forth his hands to the Lord: and the thunders and the hail ceased, neither did there drop any more rain upon the earth. 
    34: And Pharao seeing that the rain and the hail, and the thunders were ceased, increased his sin. 
    35: And his heart was hardened, and the heart of his servants, and it was made exceeding hard: neither did he let the children of Israel go, as the Lord had commanded by the hand of Moses.

  Chapter 10.

    1: And the Lord said to Moses: Go in to Pharao; for I have hardened his heart, and the heart of his servants: that I may work these my signs in him. 
    2: And thou mayest tell in the ears of thy sons, and of thy grandsons, how often I have plagued the Egyptians, and wrought my signs amongst them: and you may know that I am the Lord: 
    3: Therefore Moses and Aaron went in to Pharao, and said to him: Thus saith the Lord God of the Hebrews: How long refusest thou to submit to me? let my people go, to sacrifice to me. 
    4: But if thou resist, and wilt not let them go, behold I will bring in tomorrow the locust into thy coasts: 
    5: To cover the face of the earth that nothing thereof may appear, but that which the hail hath left may be eaten: for they shall feed upon all the trees that spring in the fields.
    6: And they shall fill thy houses, and the houses of thy servants, and of all the Egyptians: such a number as thy fathers have not seen, nor thy grandfathers, from the time they were first upon the earth, until this present day. And he turned himself away, and went forth from Pharao. 
    7: And Pharao's servants said to him: How long shall we endure this scandal? let the men go to sacrifice to the Lord their God. Dost thou not see that Egypt is undone? 
    8: And they called back Moses and Aaron to Pharao: and he said to them: Go, sacrifice to the Lord your God: who are they that shall go? 
    9: Moses said: We will go with our young and old, with our sons and daughters, with our sheep and herds: for it is the solemnity of the Lord our God. 
    10: And Pharao answered: So be the Lord with you, as I shall let you and your children go: who can doubt but that you intend some great evil?
    11: It shall not be so: but go ye men only, and sacrifice to the Lord: for this yourselves also desired. And immediately they were cast out from Pharao's presence. 
    12: And the Lord said to Moses: Stretch forth thy hand upon the land of Egypt unto the locust, that it may come upon it, and devour every herb that is left after the hail. 
    13: And Moses stretched forth his rod upon the land of Egypt: and the Lord brought a burning wind all that day, and night: and when it was morning, the burning wind raised the locusts: 
    14: And they came up over the whole land of Egypt: and rested in all the coasts of the Egyptians innumerable, the like as had not been before that time, nor shall be hereafter. 
    15: And they covered the whole face of the earth, wasting all things. And the grass of the earth was devoured, and what fruits soever were on the trees, which the hail had left: and there remained not any thing that was green on the trees, or in the herbs of the earth in all Egypt.
    16: Wherefore Pharao in haste called Moses and Aaron, and said to them: I have sinned against the Lord your God, and against you. 
    17: But now forgive me my sin this time also, and pray to the Lord your God, that he take away from me this death. 
    18: And Moses going forth from the presence of Pharao, prayed to the Lord. 
    19: And he made a very strong wind to blow from the west, and it took the locusts and cast them into the Red Sea: there remained not so much as one in all the coasts of Egypt. 
    20: And the Lord hardened Pharao's heart, neither did he let the children of Israel go.
    21: And the Lord said to Moses: Stretch out thy hand towards heaven: and may there be darkness upon the land of Egypt, so thick that it may be felt. 
    22: And Moses stretch forth his hand towards heaven: and there came horrible darkness in all the land of Egypt for three days. 
    23: No man saw his brother, nor moved himself out of the place where he was: but wheresoever the children of Israel dwelt there was light. 
    24: And Pharao called Moses and Aaron, and said to them: Go sacrifice to the Lord: let your sheep only, and herds remain; let your children go with you. 
    25: Moses said: Thou shalt give us also sacrifices and burnt offerings, to the Lord our God.
    26: All the flocks shall go with us: there shall not a hoof remain of them: for they are necessary for the service of the Lord our God: especially as we know not what must be offered, till we come to the very place. 
    27: And the Lord hardened Pharao's heart, and he would not let them go. 
    28: And Pharao said to Moses: Get thee from me, and beware thou see not my face any more: in what day soever thou shalt come in my sight, thou shalt die. 
    29: Moses answered: So shall it be as thou hast spoken, I will not see thy face any more.

  Chapter 11.

    1: And the Lord said to Moses: Yet one plague more will I bring upon Pharao and Egypt, and after that he shall let you go and thrust you out. 
    2: Therefore thou shalt tell all the people that every man ask of his friend, and every woman of her neighbour, vessels of silver, and of gold. 
    3: And the Lord will give favour to his people in the sight of the Egyptians. And Moses was a very great man in the land of Egypt, in the sight of Pharao's servants, and of all the people. 
    4: And he said: Thus said the Lord: At midnight I will enter into Egypt. 
    5: And every firstborn in the land of the Egyptians shall die, from the firstborn of Pharao who sitteth on his throne, even to the first born of the handmaid that is at the mill, and all the firstborn of beasts.
    6: And there shall be a great cry in all the land of Egypt, such as neither hath been before, nor shall be hereafter. 
    7: But with all the children of Israel there shall not a dog make the least noise, from man even to beast: that you may know how wonderful a difference the Lord maketh between the Egyptians and Israel. 
    8: And all these thy servants shall come down to me, and shall worship me, saying: Go forth thou, and all the people that is under thee: after that we will go out. 
    9: And he went out from Pharao exceeding angry. But the Lord said to Moses: Pharao will not hear you, that many signs may be done in the land of Egypt. 
    10: And Moses and Aaron did all the wonders that are written, before Pharao. And the Lord hardened Pharao's heart, neither did he let the children of Israel go out of his land.

  Chapter 12.

    1: And the Lord said to Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt: 
    2: This month shall be to you the beginning of months: it shall be the first in the months of the year. 
    3: Speak ye to the whole assembly of the children of Israel, and say to them: On the tenth day of this month let every man take a lamb by their families and houses. 
    4: But if the number be less than may suffice to eat the lamb, he shall take unto him his neighbour that joineth to his house, according to the number of souls which may be enough to eat the lamb. 
    5: And it shall be a lamb without blemish, a male, of one year: according to which rite also you shall take a kid.
    6: And you shall keep it until the fourteenth day of this month: and the whole multitude of the children of Israel shall sacrifice it in the evening. 
    7: And they shall take of the blood thereof, and put it upon both the side posts, and on the upper door posts of the houses, wherein they shall eat it. 
    8: And they shall eat the flesh that night roasted at the fire, and unleavened bread with wild lettuce. 
    9: You shall not eat thereof any thing raw, nor boiled in water, but only roasted at the fire: you shall eat the head with the feet and entrails thereof. 
    10: Neither shall there remain any thing of it until morning. If there be any thing left, you shall burn it with fire.
    11: And thus you shall eat it: you shall gird your reins, and you shall have shoes on your feet, holding staves in your hands, and you shall eat in haste: for it is the Phase (that is the Passage) of the Lord. 
    12: And I will pass through the land of Egypt that night, and will kill every firstborn in the land of Egypt both man and beast: and against all the gods of Egypt I will execute judgments: I am the Lord. 
    13: And the blood shall be unto you for a sign in the houses where you shall be: and I shall see the blood, and shall pass over you: and the plague shall not be upon you to destroy you, when I shall strike the land of Egypt. 
    14: And this day shall be for a memorial to you: and you shall keep it a feast to the Lord in your generations with an everlasting observance. 
    15: Seven days shall you eat unleavened bread: in the first day there shall be no leaven in your houses: whosoever shall eat any thing leavened, from the first day until the seventh day, that soul shall perish out of Israel.
    16: The first day shall be holy and solemn, and the seventh day shall be kept with the like solemnity: you shall do no work in them, except those things that belong to eating. 
    17: And you shall observe the feast of the unleavened bread: for in this same day I will bring forth your army out of the land of Egypt, and you shall keep this day in your generations by a perpetual observance. 
    18: The first month, the fourteenth day of the month in the evening, you shall eat unleavened bread, until the one and twentieth day of the same month in the evening. 
    19: Seven days there shall not be found any leaven in your houses: he that shall eat leavened bread, his soul shall perish out of the assembly of Israel, whether he be a stranger or born in the land. 
    20: You shall not eat any thing leavened: in all your habitations you shall eat unleavened bread.
    21: And Moses called all the ancients of the children of Israel, and said to them: Go take a lamb by your families, and sacrifice the Phase. 
    22: And dip a bunch of hyssop in the blood that is at the door, and sprinkle the transom of the door therewith, and both the door cheeks: let none of you go out of the door of his house till morning. 
    23: For the Lord will pass through striking the Egyptians: and when he shall see the blood on the transom, and on both the posts, he will pass over the door of the house, and not suffer the destroyer to come into your houses and to hurt you. 
    24: Thou shalt keep this thing as a law for thee and thy children for ever. 
    25: And when you have entered into the land which the Lord will give you as he hath promised, you shall observe these ceremonies.
    26: And when your children shall say to you: What is the meaning of this service? 
    27: You shall say to them: It is the victim of the passage of the Lord, when he passed over the houses of the children of Israel in Egypt, striking the Egyptians, and saving our houses. And the people bowing themselves, adored. 
    28: And the children of Israel going forth did as the Lord had commanded Moses and Aaron. 
    29: And it came to pass at midnight, the Lord slew every firstborn in the land of Egypt, from the firstborn of Pharao, who sat on his throne, unto the firstborn of the captive woman that was in the prison, and all the firstborn of cattle. 
    30: And Pharao arose in the night, and all his servants, and all Egypt: for there was not a house wherein there lay not one dead.
    31: And Pharao calling Moses and Aaron, in the night, said: Arise and go forth from among my people, you and the children of Israel: go, sacrifice to the Lord as you say. 
    32: Your sheep and herds take along with you, as you demanded, and departing, bless me. 
    33: And the Egyptians pressed the people to go forth out of the land speedily, saying: We shall all die. 
    34: The people therefore took dough before it was leavened: and tying it in their cloaks, put it on their shoulders. 
    35: And the children of Israel did as Moses had commanded: and they asked of the Egyptians vessels of silver and gold, and very much raiment.
    36: And the Lord gave favour to the people in the sight of the Egyptians, so that they lent unto them: and they stripped the Egyptians. 
    37: And the children of Israel set forward from Ramesse to Socoth, being about six hundred thousand men on foot, beside children. 
    38: And a mixed multitude without number went up also with them, sheep and herds and beasts of divers kinds, exceeding many. 
    39: And they baked the meal, which a little before they had brought out of Egypt, in dough: and they made earth cakes unleavened: for it could not be leavened, the Egyptians pressing them to depart, and not suffering them to make any stay: neither did they think of preparing any meat. 
    40: And the abode of the children of Israel that they made in Egypt, was four hundred and thirty years.
    41: Which being expired, the same day all the army of the Lord went forth out of the land of Egypt. 
    42: This is the observable night of the Lord, when he brought them forth out of the land of Egypt: this night all the children of Israel must observe in their generations. 
    43: And the Lord said to Moses and Aaron: This is the service of the Phase: No foreigner shall eat of it. 
    44: But every bought servant shall be circumcised, and so shall eat. 
    45: The stranger and the hireling shall not eat thereof.
    46: In one house shall it be eaten, neither shall you carry forth of the flesh thereof out of the house, neither shall you break a bone thereof. 
    47: All the assembly of the children of Israel shall keep it. 
    48: And if any stranger be willing to dwell among you, and to keep the Phase of the Lord, all his males shall first be circumcised, and then shall he celebrate it according to the manner: and he shall be as he that is born in the land: but if any man be uncircumcised, he shall not eat thereof. 
    49: The same law shall be to him that is born in the land, and to the proselyte that sojourneth with you. 
    50: And all the children of Israel did as the Lord had commanded Moses and Aaron.
    51: And the same day the Lord brought forth the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt by their companies.

End of day 16.