Day 97:

Reading 2-Chronicles, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: And Solomon the son of David was strengthened in his kingdom, and the Lord his God was with him, and magnified him to a high degree. 
    2: And Solomon gave orders to all Israel, to the captains of thousands, and of hundreds, and to the rulers, and to the judges of all Israel, and the heads of the families: 
    3: And he went with all the multitude to the high place of Gabaon, where was the tabernacle of the covenant of the Lord, which Moses the servant of God made, in the wilderness. 
    4: For David had brought the ark of God from Cariathiarim to the place, which he had prepared for it, and where he had pitched a tabernacle for it, that is, in Jerusalem. 
    5: And the altar of brass, which Beseleel the son of Uri the son of Hur had made, was there before the tabernacle of the Lord: and Solomon and all the assembly sought it:
    6: And Solomon went up thither to the brazen altar, before the tabernacle of the covenant of the Lord, and offered up on it a thousand victims. 
    7: And behold that night God appeared to him, saying: Ask what thou wilt that I should give thee. 
    8: And Solomon said to God: Thou hast shewn great kindness to my father David: and hast made me king in his stead. 
    9: Now therefore, O Lord God, let thy word be fulfilled, which thou hast promised to David my father: for thou hast made me king over thy great people, which is as innumerable as the dust of the earth. 
    10: Give me wisdom and knowledge that I may come in and go out before thy people: for who can worthily judge this thy people, which is so great?
    11: And God said to Solomon: Because this choice hath pleased thy heart, and thou hast not asked riches, and wealth, and glory, nor the lives of them that hate thee, nor many days of life: but hast asked wisdom and knowledge, to be able to judge my people, over which I have made thee king, 
    12: Wisdom and knowledge are granted to thee: and I will give thee riches, and wealth, and glory, so that none of the kings before thee, nor after thee, shall be like thee. 
    13: Then Solomon came from the high place of Gabaon to Jerusalem before the tabernacle of the covenant, and reigned over Israel. 
    14: And he gathered to himself chariots and horsemen, and he had a thousand four hundred chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen: and he placed them in the cities of the chariots, and with the king in Jerusalem. 
    15: And the king made silver and gold to be in Jerusalem as stones, and cedar trees as sycamores, which grow in the plains in great multitude.
    16: And there were horses brought him from Egypt, and from Coa by the king's merchants, who went, and bought at a price, 
    17: A chariot of four horses for six hundred pieces of silver, and a horse for a hundred and fifty: in like manner market was made in all the kingdoms of the Hethites, and of the kings of Syria.

  Chapter 2.

    1: And Solomon determined to build a house to the name of the Lord, and a palace for himself. 
    2: And he numbered out seventy thousand men to bear burdens, and eighty thousand to hew stones in the mountains, and three thousand six hundred to oversee them. 
    3: He sent also to Hiram king of Tyre, saying: As thou didst with David my father, and didst send him cedars, to build him a house, in which he dwelt: 
    4: So do with me that I may build a house to the name of the Lord my God, to dedicate it to burn incense before him, and to perfume with aromatical spices, and for the continual setting forth of bread, and for the holocausts, morning and evening, and on the sabbaths, and on the new moons, and the solemnities of the Lord our God for ever, which are commanded for Israel. 
    5: For the house which I desire to build, is great: for our God is great above all gods.
    6: Who then can be able to build him a worthy house? if heaven, and the heavens of heavens cannot contain him: who am I that I should be able to build him a house? but to this end only, that incense may be burnt before him. 
    7: Send me therefore a skillful man, that knoweth how to work in gold, and in silver, in brass, and in iron, in purple, in scarlet and in blue, and that hath skill in engraving, with the artificers, which I have with me in Judea and Jerusalem, whom David my father provided. 
    8: Send me also cedars, and fir trees, and pine trees from Libanus: for I know that thy servants are skillful in cutting timber in Libanus, and my servants shall be with thy servants, 
    9: To provide me timber in abundance. For the house which I desire to build, is to be exceeding great, and glorious. 
    10: And I will give thy servants the workmen that are to cut down the trees, for their food twenty thousand cores of wheat, and as many cores of barley, and twenty thousand measures of wine, and twenty thousand measures of oil.
    11: And Hiram king of Tyre sent a letter to Solomon, saying: Because the Lord hath loved his people, therefore he hath made thee king over them. 
    12: And he added, saying: Blessed be the Lord the God of Israel, who made heaven and earth, who hath given to king David a wise and knowing son, endued with understanding and prudence, to build a house to the Lord, and a palace for himself. 
    13: I therefore have sent thee my father Hiram, a wise and most skillful man, 
    14: The son of a woman of the daughters of Dan, whose father was a Tyrian, who knoweth how to work in gold, and in silver, in brass, and in iron, and in marble, and in timber, in purple also, and violet, and silk and scarlet: and who knoweth to grave all sort of graving, and to devise ingeniously all that there may be need of in the work with thy artificers, and with the artificers of my lord David thy father. 
    15: The wheat therefore, and the barley and the oil, and the wine, which thou, my lord, hast promised, send to thy servants.
    16: And we will cut down as many trees out of Libanus, as thou shalt want, and will convey them in floats by sea to Joppe: and it will be thy part to bring them thence to Jerusalem. 
    17: And Solomon numbered all the proselytes in the land of Israel, after the numbering which David his father had made, and they were found a hundred and fifty-three thousand and six hundred. 
    18: And he set seventy thousand of them to carry burdens on their shoulders, and eighty thousand to hew stones in the mountains: and three thousand and six hundred to be overseers of the work of the people.

  Chapter 3.

    1: And Solomon began to build the house of the Lord in Jerusalem, in mount Moria, which had been shewn to David his father, in the place which David had prepared in the threshingfloor of Ornan the Jebusite. 
    2: And he began to build in the second month, in the fourth year of his reign. 
    3: Now these are the foundations, which Solomon laid, to build the house of God, the length by the first measure sixty cubits, the breadth twenty cubits. 
    4: And the porch in the front, which was extended in length according to the measure of the breadth of the house, twenty cubits: and the height was a hundred and twenty cubits: and he overlaid it within with pure gold. 
    5: And the greater house he ceiled with deal boards, and overlaid them with plates of fine gold throughout: and he graved in them palm trees, and like little chains interlaced with one another.
    6: He paved also the floor of the temple with most precious marble, of great beauty. 
    7: And the gold of the plates with which he overlaid the house, and the beams thereof, and the posts, and the walls, and the doors was of the finest: and he graved cherubims on the walls. 
    8: He made also the house of the holy of holies: the length of it according to the breadth of the temple, twenty cubits, and the breadth of it in like manner twenty cubits: and he overlaid it with plates of gold, amounting to about six hundred talents. 
    9: He made also nails of gold, and the weight of every nail was fifty sicles: the upper chambers also he overlaid with gold. 
    10: He made also in the house of the holy of holies two cherubims of image work: and he overlaid them with gold.
    11: The wings of the cherubims were extended twenty cubits, so that one wing was five cubits long, and reached to the wall of the house: and the other was also five cubits long, and reached to the wing of the other cherub. 
    12: In like manner the wing of the other cherub, was five cubits long, and reached to the wall: and his other wing was five cubits long, and touched the wing of the other cherub. 
    13: So the wings of the two cherubims were spread forth, and were extended twenty cubits: and they stood upright on their feet, and their faces were turned toward the house without. 
    14: He made also a veil of violet, purple, scarlet, and silk: and wrought in it cherubims. 
    15: He made also before the doors of the temple two pillars, which were five and thirty cubits high: and their chapiters were five cubits.
    16: He made also as it were little chains in the oracle, and he put them on the heads of the pillars: and a hundred pomegranates, which he put between the little chains. 
    17: These pillars he put at the entrance of the temple, one on the right hand, and the other on the left: that which was on the right hand, he called Jachin: and that on the left hand, Boot.

  Chapter 4.

    1: He made also an altar of brass twenty cubits long, and twenty cubits broad, and ten cubits high. 
    2: Also a molten sea of ten cubits from brim to brim, round in compass: it was five cubits high, and a line of thirty cubits compassed it round about. 
    3: And under it there was the likeness of oxen, and certain engravings on the outside of ten cubits compassed the belly of the sea, as it were with two rows. 
    4: And the oxen were cast: and the sea itself was set upon the twelve oxen, three of which looked toward the north, and other three toward the west: and other three toward the south, and the other three that remained toward the east, and the sea stood upon them: and the hinder parts of the oxen were inward under the sea. 
    5: Now the thickness of it was a handbreadth, and the brim of it was like the brim of a cup, or of a crisped lily: and it held three thousand measures.
    6: He made also ten lavers: and he see five on the right hand, and five on the left, to wash in them all such things as they mere to offer for holocausts: but the sea was for the priests to wash in. 
    7: And he made ten golden candlesticks, according to the form which they were commanded to be made by: and he set them in the temple, five on the right hand, and five on the left. 
    8: Moreover also ten tables: and he set them in the temple, five on the right side, and five on the left. Also a hundred bowls of gold. 
    9: He made also the court of the priests, and a great hall, and doors in the hall, which he covered with brass. 
    10: And he set the sea on the right side over against the east toward the south.
    11: And Hiram made caldrons, and fleshhooks, and bowls: and finished all the king's work in the house of God: 
    12: That is to say, the two pillars, and the pommels, and the chapiters, and the network, to cover the chapiters over the pommels. 
    13: And four hundred pomegranates, and two wreaths of network, so that two rows of pomegranates were joined to each wreath, to cover the pommels, and the chapiters of the pillars. 
    14: He made also bases, and lavers, which he set upon the bases: 
    15: One sea, and twelve oxen under the sea;
    16: And the caldrons, and fleshhooks, and bowls. All the vessels did Hiram his father make for Solomon in the house of the Lord of the finest brass. 
    17: In the country near the Jordan did the king cast them, in a clay ground between Sochot and Saredatha. 
    18: And the multitude of vessels was innumerable, so that the weight of the brass was not known. 
    19: And Solomon made all the vessels for the house of God, and the golden altar, and the tables, upon which were the leaves of proposition, 
    20: The candlesticks also of most pure gold with their lamps to give light before the oracle, according to the manner.
    21: And certain flowers, and lamps, and golden tongs: all were made of the finest gold. 
    22: The vessels also for the perfumes, and the censers, and the bowls, and the mortars, of pure gold. And he graved the doors of the inner temple, that is, for the holy of holies: and the doors of the temple without were of gold. And thus all the work was finished which Solomon made in the house of the Lord.

End of day 97.