Day 281:

Reading Zechariah, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: The burden of the word of the Lord in the land of Hadrach, and of Damascus the rest thereof: for the eye of man, and of all the tribes of Israel is the Lord's. 
    2: Emath also in the borders thereof, and Tyre, and Sidon: for they have taken to themselves to be exceeding wise. 
    3: And Tyre hath built herself a strong hold, and heaped together silver as earth, and gold as the mire of the streets. 
    4: Behold the Lord shall possess her, and shall strike her strength in the sea, and she shall be devoured with fire. 
    5: Ascalon shall see, and shall fear, and Gaza, and shall be very sorrowful: and Accaron, because her hope is confounded: and the king shall perish from Gaza, and Ascalon shall not be inhabited.
    6: And the divider shall sit in Azotus, and I will destroy the pride of the Philistines. 
    7: And I will take away his blood out of his mouth, and his abominations from between his teeth: and even he shall be left to our God, and he shall be as a governor in Juda, and Accaron as a Jebusite. 
    8: And I will encompass my house with them that serve me in war, going and returning, and the oppressor shall no more pass through them: for now I have seen with my eyes. 
    9: Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Sion, shout for joy, O daughter of Jerusalem: BEHOLD THY KING will come to thee, the just and saviour: he is poor, and riding upon an ass, and upon a colt the foal of an ass. 
    10: And I will destroy the chariot out of Ephraim, and the horse out of Jerusalem, and the bow for war shall be broken: and he shall speak peace to the Gentiles, and his power shall be from sea to sea, and from the rivers even to the end of the earth.
    11: Thou also by the blood of thy testament hast sent forth thy prisoners out of the pit, wherein is no water. 
    12: Return to the strong hold, ye prisoners of hope, I will render thee double as I declare today. 
    13: Because I have bent Juda for me as a bow, I have filled Ephraim: and I will raise up thy sons, O Sion, above thy sons, O Greece, and I will make thee as the sword of the mighty. 
    14: And the Lord God shall be seen over them, and his dart shall go forth as lightning: and the Lord God will sound the trumpet, and go in the whirlwind of the south. 
    15: The Lord of hosts will protect them: and they shall devour, and subdue with the stones of the sling: and drinking they shall be inebriated as it were with wine, and they shall be filled as bowls, and as the horns of the altar.
    16: And the Lord their God will save them in that day, as the flock of his people: for holy stones shall be lifted up over his land. 
    17: For what is the good thing of him, and what is his beautiful thing, but the corn of the elect, and wine springing forth virgins?

  Chapter 10.

    1: Ask ye of the Lord rain in the latter season, and the Lord will make snows, and will give them showers of rain, to every one grass in the field. 
    2: For the idols have spoken what was unprofitable, and the diviners have seen a lie, and the dreamers have spoken vanity: they comforted in vain: therefore they were led away as a flock: they shall be afflicted, because they have no shepherd. 
    3: My wrath is kindled against the shepherds, and I will visit upon the buck goats: for the Lord of hosts hath visited his flock, the house of Juda, and hath made them as the horse of his glory in the battle. 
    4: Out of him shall come forth the corner, out of him the pin, out of him the bow of battle, out of him every exacter together. 
    5: And they shall be as mighty men, treading under foot the mire of the ways in battle: and they shall fight, because the Lord is with them, and the riders of horses shall be confounded.
    6: And I will strengthen the house of Juda, and save the house of Joseph: and I will bring them back again, because I will have mercy on them: and they shall be as they were when I had cast them off, for I am the Lord their God, and will hear them. 
    7: And they shall be as the valiant men of Ephraim, and their heart shall rejoice as through wine: and their children shall see, and shall rejoice, and their heart shall be joyful in the Lord. 
    8: I will whistle for them, and I will gather them together, because I have redeemed them: and I will multiply them as they were multiplied before. 
    9: And I will sow them among peoples: and from afar they shall remember me: and they shall live with their children, and shall return. 
    10: And I will bring them back out of the land of Egypt, and will gather them from among the Assyrians: and will bring them to the land of Galaad, and Libanus, and place shall not be found for them.
    11: And he shall pass over the strait of the sea, and shall strike the waves in the sea, and all the depths of the river shall be confounded, and the pride of Assyria shall be humbled, and the sceptre of Egypt shall depart. 
    12: I will strengthen them in the Lord, and they shall walk in his name, saith the Lord.

  Chapter 11.

    1: Open thy gates, O Libanus, and let fire devour thy cedars. 
    2: Howl, thou fir tree, for the cedar is fallen, for the mighty are laid waste: howl, ye oaks of Basan, because the fenced forest is cut down. 
    3: The voice of the howling of the shepherds, because their glory is laid waste: the voice of the roaring of the lions, because the pride of the Jordan is spoiled. 
    4: Thus saith the Lord my God: Feed the flock of the slaughter, 
    5: Which they that possessed, slew, and repented not, and they sold them, saying: Blessed be the Lord, we are become rich: and their shepherds spared them not.
    6: And I will no more spare the inhabitants of the land, saith the Lord: behold I will deliver the men, every one into his neighbour's hand, and into the hand of his king: and they shall destroy the land, and I will not deliver it out of their hand. 
    7: And I will feed the flock of slaughter for this, O ye poor of the flock. And I took unto me two rods, one I called Beauty, and the other I called a Cord, and I fed the flock. 
    8: And I cut off three shepherds in one month, and my soul was straitened in their regard: for their soul also varied in my regard. 
    9: And I said: I will not feed you: that which dieth, let it die: and that which is cut off, let it be cut off: and let the rest devour every one the flesh of his neighbour. 
    10: And I took my rod that was called Beauty, and I cut it asunder to make void my covenant, which I had made with all people.
    11: And it was made void in that day: and so the poor of the flock that keep for me, understood that it is the word of the Lord. 
    12: And I said to them: If it be good in your eyes, bring hither my wages: and if not, be quiet. And they weighed for my wages thirty pieces of silver. 
    13: And the Lord said to me: Cast it to the statuary, a handsome price, that I was prized at by them. And I took the thirty pieces of silver, and I cast them into the house of the Lord to the statuary. 
    14: And I cut off my second rod that was called a Cord, that I might break the brotherhood between Juda and Israel. 
    15: And the Lord said to me: Take to thee yet the instruments of a foolish shepherd.
    16: For behold I will raise up a shepherd in the land, who shall not visit what is forsaken, nor seek what is scattered, nor heal what is broken, nor nourish that which standeth, and he shall eat the flesh of the fat ones, and break their hoofs. 
    17: O shepherd, and idol, that forsaketh the flock: the sword upon his arm and upon his right eye: his arm shall quite wither away, and his right eye shall be utterly darkened.

  Chapter 12.

    1: The burden of the word of the Lord upon Israel. Thus saith the Lord, who stretcheth forth the heavens, and layeth the foundations of the earth, and formeth the spirit of man in him: 
    2: Behold I will make Jerusalem a lintel of surfeiting to all the people round about: and Juda also shall be in the siege against Jerusalem. 
    3: And it shall come to pass in that day, that I will make Jerusalem a burdensome stone to all people: all that shall lift it up shall be rent and torn, and all the kingdoms of the earth shall be gathered together against her. 
    4: In that day, saith the Lord, I will strike every horse with astonishment, and his rider with madness: and I will open my eyes upon the house of Juda, and will strike every horse of the nations with blindness. 
    5: And the governors of Juda shall say in their heart: Let the inhabitants of Jerusalem be strengthened for me in the Lord of hosts, their God.
    6: In that day I will make the governors of Juda like a furnace of fire amongst wood, and as a firebrand amongst hay: and they shall devour all the people round about, to the right hand, and to the left: and Jerusalem shall be inhabited again in her own place in Jerusalem. 
    7: And the Lord shall save the tabernacles of Juda, as in the beginning: that the house of David, and the glory of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, may not boast and magnify themselves against Juda. 
    8: In that day shall the Lord protect the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and he that hath offended among them in that day shall be as David: and the house of David, as that of God, as an angel of the Lord in their sight. 
    9: And it shall come to pass in that day, that I will seek to destroy all the nations that come against Jerusalem. 
    10: And I will pour out upon the house of David, and upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the spirit of grace, and of prayers: and they shall look upon me, whom they have pierced: and they shall mourn for him as one mourneth for an only son, and they shall grieve over him, as the manner is to grieve for the death of the firstborn.
    11: In that day there shall be a great lamentation in Jerusalem like the lamentation of Adadremmon in the plain of Mageddon. 
    12: And the land shall mourn: families and families apart: the families of the house of David apart, and their women apart: 
    13: The families of the house of Nathan apart, and their women apart: the families of the house of Levi apart, and their women apart: the families of Semei apart, and their women apart. 
    14: All the rest of the families, families and families apart, and their women apart.

End of day 281.