Day 154:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['41', '42', '43', '44']:

  Chapter 41.

    1: Unto the end, understanding for the sons of Core. 
    2: As the hart panteth after the fountains of water; so my soul panteth after thee, O God. 
    3: My soul hath thirsted after the strong living God; when shall I come and appear before the face of God? 
    4: My tears have been my bread day and night, whilst it is said to me daily: Where is thy God? 
    5: These things I remembered, and poured out my soul in me: for I shall go over into the place of the wonderful tabernacle, even to the house of God: With the voice of joy and praise; the noise of one feasting.
    6: Why art thou sad, O my soul? and why dost thou trouble me? Hope in God, for I will still give praise to him: the salvation of my countenance, 
    7: And my God. My soul is troubled within myself: therefore will I remember thee from the land of Jordan and Hermoniim, from the little hill. 
    8: Deep calleth on deep, at the noise of thy flood-gates. All thy heights and thy billows have passed over me. 
    9: In the daytime the Lord hath commanded his mercy; and a canticle to him in the night. With me is prayer to the God of my life. 
    10: I will say to God: Thou art my support. Why hast thou forgotten me? and why go I mourning, whilst my enemy afflicteth me?
    11: Whilst my bones are broken, my enemies who trouble me have reproached me; Whilst they say to me day be day: Where is thy God? 
    12: Why art thou cast down, O my soul? and why dost thou disquiet me? Hope thou in God, for I will still give praise to him: the salvation of my countenance, and my God.

  Chapter 42.

    1: A psalm for David. Judge me, O God, and distinguish my cause from the nation that is not holy: deliver me from the unjust and deceitful man. 
    2: For thou art God my strength: why hast thou cast me off? and why do I go sorrowful whilst the enemy afflicteth me? 
    3: Send forth thy light and thy truth: they have conducted me, and brought me unto thy holy hill, and into thy tabernacles. 
    4: And I will go in to the altar of God: to God who giveth joy to my youth. 
    5: To thee, O God my God, I will give praise upon the harp: why art thou sad, O my soul? and why dost thou disquiet me?
    6: Hope in God, for I will still give praise to him: the salvation of my countenance, and my God.

  Chapter 43.

    1: Unto the end, for the sons of Core, to give understanding. 
    2: We have heard, O God, with our ears: our fathers have declared to us, The work, thou hast wrought in their days, and in the days of old. 
    3: Thy hand destroyed the Gentiles, and thou plantedst them: thou didst afflict the people and cast them out. 
    4: For they got not the possession of the land by their own sword: neither did their own arm save them. But thy right hand and thy arm, and the light of thy countenance: because thou wast pleased with them. 
    5: Thou art thyself my king and my God, who commandest the saving of Jacob.
    6: Through thee we will push down our enemies with the horn: and through thy name we will despise them that rise up against us. 
    7: For I will not trust in my bow: neither shall my sword save me. 
    8: But thou hast saved us from them that afflict us: and hast put them to shame that hate us. 
    9: In God shall we glory all the day long: and in thy name we will give praise for ever. 
    10: But now thou hast cast us off, and put us to shame: and thou, O God, wilt not go out with our armies.
    11: Thou hast made us turn our back to our enemies: and they that hated us plundered for themselves. 
    12: Thou hast given us up like sheep to be eaten: thou hast scattered us among the nations. 
    13: Thou hast sold thy people for no price: and there was no reckoning in the exchange of them. 
    14: Thou hast made us a reproach to our neighbours, a scoff and derision to them that are round about us. 
    15: Thou hast made us a byword among the Gentiles: a shaking of the head among the people.
    16: All the day long my shame is before me: and the confusion of my face hath covered me, 
    17: At the voice of him that reproacheth and detracteth me: at the face of the enemy and persecutor. 
    18: All these things have come upon us, yet we have not forgotten thee: and we have not done wickedly in thy covenant. 
    19: And our heart hath not turned back: neither hast thou turned aside our steps from thy way. 
    20: For thou hast humbled us in the place of affliction: and the shadow of death hath covered us.
    21: If we have forgotten the name of our God, and if we have spread forth our hands to a strange god: 
    22: Shall not God search out these things: for he knoweth the secrets of the heart. Because for thy sake we are killed all the day long: we are counted as sheep for the slaughter. 
    23: Arise, why sleepest thou, O Lord? arise, and cast us not off to the end. 
    24: Why turnest thou face away? and forgettest our want and our trouble? 
    25: For our soul is humbled down to the dust: our belly cleaveth to the earth.
    26: Arise, O Lord, help us and redeem us for thy name's sake.

  Chapter 44.

    1: Unto the end, for them that shall be changed, for the sons of Core, for understanding. A canticle for the Beloved. 
    2: My heart hath uttered a good word I speak my works to the king; My tongue is the pen of a scrivener that writeth swiftly. 
    3: Thou art beautiful above the sons of men: grace is poured abroad in thy lips; therefore hath God blessed thee for ever. 
    4: Gird thy sword upon thy thigh, O thou most mighty. 
    5: With thy comeliness and thy beauty set out, proceed prosperously, and reign. Because of truth and meekness and justice: and thy right hand shall conduct thee wonderfully.
    6: Thy arrows are sharp: under thee shall people fall, into the hearts of the king's enemies. 
    7: Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever: the sceptre of thy kingdom is a sceptre of uprightness. 
    8: Thou hast loved justice, and hated iniquity: therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows. 
    9: Myrrh and stacte and cassia perfume thy garments, from the ivory houses: out of which 
    10: The daughters of kings have delighted thee in thy glory. The queen stood on thy right hand, in gilded clothing; surrounded with variety.
    11: Hearken, O daughter, and see, and incline thy ear: and forget thy people and thy father's house. 
    12: And the king shall greatly desire thy beauty; for he is the Lord thy God, and him they shall adore. 
    13: And the daughters of Tyre with gifts, yea, all the rich among the people, shall entreat thy countenance. 
    14: All the glory of the king's daughter is within in golden borders, 
    15: Clothed round about with varieties. After her shall virgins be brought to the king: her neighbours shall be brought to thee.
    16: They shall be brought with gladness and rejoicing: they shall be brought into the temple of the king. 
    17: Instead of thy fathers, sons are born to thee: thou shalt make them princes over all the earth. 
    18: They shall remember thy name throughout all generations. Therefore shall people praise thee for ever; yea, for ever and ever.

End of day 154.