Day 311:

Reading Acts, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: And when they had passed through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica, where there was a synagogue of the Jews. 
    2: And Paul, according to his custom, went in unto them; and for three sabbath days he reasoned with them out of the scriptures: 
    3: Declaring and insinuating that the Christ was to suffer, and to rise again from the dead; and that this is Jesus Christ, whom I preach to you. 
    4: And some of them believed, and were associated to Paul and Silas; and of those that served God, and of the Gentiles a great multitude, and of noble women not a few. 
    5: But the Jews, moved with envy, and taking unto them some wicked men of the vulgar sort, and making a tumult, set the city in an uproar; and besetting Jason's house, sought to bring them out unto the people.
    6: And not finding them, they drew Jason and certain brethren to the rulers of the city, crying: They that set the city in an uproar, are come hither also; 
    7: Whom Jason hath received; and these all do contrary to the decrees of Caesar, saying that there is another king, Jesus. 
    8: And they stirred up the people, and the rulers of the city hearing these things, 
    9: And having taken satisfaction of Jason and of the rest, they let them go. 
    10: But the brethren immediately sent away Paul and Silas by night unto Berea. Who, when they were come thither, went into the synagogue of the Jews.
    11: Now these were more noble than those in Thessalonica, who received the word with all eagerness, daily searching the scriptures, whether these things were so. 
    12: And many indeed of them believed, and of honourable women that were Gentiles, and of men not a few. 
    13: And when the Jews of Thessalonica had knowledge that the word of God was also preached by Paul at Berea, they came thither also, stirring up and troubling the multitude. 
    14: And then immediately the brethren sent away Paul, to go unto the sea; but Silas and Timothy remained there. 
    15: And they that conducted Paul, brought him as far as Athens; and receiving a commandment from him to Silas and Timothy, that they should come to him with all speed, they departed.
    16: Now whilst Paul waited for them at Athens, his spirit was stirred within him, seeing the city wholly given to idolatry. 
    17: He disputed, therefore, in the synagogue with the Jews, and with them that served God, and in the marketplace, every day with them that were there. 
    18: And certain philosophers of the Epicureans and of the Stoics disputed with him; and some said: What is it, that this word sower would say? But others: He seemeth to be a setter forth of new gods; because he preached to them Jesus and the resurrection. 
    19: And taking him, they brought him to the Areopagus, saying: May we know what this new doctrine is, which thou speakest of? 
    20: For thou bringest in certain new things to our ears. We would know therefore what these things mean.
    21: (Now all the Athenians, and strangers that were there, employed themselves in nothing else, but either in telling or in hearing some new thing.) 
    22: But Paul standing in the midst of the Areopagus, said: Ye men of Athens, I perceive that in all things you are too superstitious. 
    23: For passing by, and seeing your idols, I found an altar also, on which was written: To the unknown God. What therefore you worship, without knowing it, that I preach to you: 
    24: God, who made the world, and all things therein; he, being Lord of heaven and earth, dwelleth not in temples made with hands; 
    25: Neither is he served with men's hands, as though he needed any thing; seeing it is he who giveth to all life, and breath, and all things:
    26: And hath made of one, all mankind, to dwell upon the whole face of the earth, determining appointed times, and the limits of their habitation. 
    27: That they should seek God, if happily they may feel after him or find him, although he be not far from every one of us: 
    28: For in him we live, and move, and are; as some also of your own poets said: For we are also his offspring. 
    29: Being therefore the offspring of God, we must not suppose the divinity to be like unto gold, or silver, or stone, the graving of art, and device of man. 
    30: And God indeed having winked at the times of this ignorance, now declareth unto men, that all should everywhere do penance.
    31: Because he hath appointed a day wherein he will judge the world in equity, by the man whom he hath appointed; giving faith to all, by raising him up from the dead. 
    32: And when they had heard of the resurrection of the dead, some indeed mocked, but others said: We will hear thee again concerning this matter. 
    33: So Paul went out from among them. 
    34: But certain men adhering to him, did believe; among whom was also Dionysius, the Areopagite, and a woman named Damaris, and others with them.

  Chapter 18.

    1: After these things, departing from Athens, he came to Corinth. 
    2: And finding a certain Jew, named Aquila, born in Pontus, lately come from Italy, with Priscilla his wife, (because that Claudius had commanded all Jews to depart from Rome,) he came to them. 
    3: And because he was of the same trade, he remained with them, and wrought; (now they were tentmakers by trade.) 
    4: And he reasoned in the synagogue every sabbath, bringing in the name of the Lord Jesus; and he persuaded the Jews and the Greeks. 
    5: And when Silas and Timothy were come from Macedonia, Paul was earnest in preaching, testifying to the Jews, that Jesus is the Christ.
    6: But they gainsaying and blaspheming, he shook his garments, and said to them: Your blood be upon your own heads; I am clean: from henceforth I will go unto the Gentiles. 
    7: And departing thence, he entered into the house of a certain man, named Titus Justus, one that worshipped God, whose house was adjoining to the synagogue. 
    8: And Crispus, the ruler of the synagogue, believed in the Lord, with all his house; and many of the Corinthians hearing, believed, and were baptized. 
    9: And the Lord said to Paul in the night, by a vision: Do not fear, but speak; and hold not thy peace, 
    10: Because I am with thee: and no man shall set upon thee, to hurt thee; for I have much people in this city.
    11: And he stayed there a year and six months, teaching among them the word of God. 
    12: But when Gallio was proconsul of Achaia, the Jews with one accord rose up against Paul, and brought him to the judgment seat, 
    13: Saying: This man persuadeth men to worship God contrary to the law. 
    14: And when Paul was beginning to open his mouth, Gallio said to the Jews: If it were some matter of injustice, or an heinous deed, O Jews, I should with reason bear with you. 
    15: But if they be questions of word and names, and of your law, look you to it: I will not be judge of such things.
    16: And he drove them from the judgment seat. 
    17: And all laying hold on Sosthenes, the ruler of the synagogue, beat him before the judgment seat; and Gallio cared for none of those things. 
    18: But Paul, when he had stayed yet many days, taking his leave of the brethren, sailed thence into Syria (and with him Priscilla and Aquila), having shorn his head in Cenchrae: for he had a vow. 
    19: And he came to Ephesus, and left them there. But he himself entering into the synagogue, disputed with the Jews. 
    20: And when they desired him, that he would tarry a longer time, he consented not;
    21: But taking his leave, and saying: I will return to you again, God willing, he departed from Ephesus. 
    22: And going down to Caesarea, he went up to Jerusalem, and saluted the church, and so came down to Antioch. 
    23: And after he had spent some time there, he departed, and went through the country of Galatia and Phrygia, in order, confirming all the disciples. 
    24: Now a certain Jew, named Apollo, born at Alexandria, an eloquent man, came to Ephesus, one mighty in the scriptures. 
    25: This man was instructed in the way of the Lord; and being fervent in spirit, spoke, and taught diligently the things that are of Jesus, knowing only the baptism of John.
    26: This man therefore began to speak boldly in the synagogue. Whom when Priscilla and Aquila had heard, they took him to them, and expounded to him the way of the Lord more diligently. 
    27: And whereas he was desirous to go to Achaia, the brethren exhorting, wrote to the disciples to receive him. Who, when he was come, helped them much who had believed. 
    28: For with much vigour he convinced the Jews openly, shewing by the scriptures, that Jesus is the Christ.

  Chapter 19.

    1: And it came to pass, while Apollo was at Corinth, that Paul having passed through the upper coasts, came to Ephesus, and found certain disciples. 
    2: And he said to them: Have you received the Holy Ghost since ye believed? But they said to him: We have not so much as heard whether there be a Holy Ghost. 
    3: And he said: In what then were you baptized? Who said: In John's baptism. 
    4: Then Paul said: John baptized the people with the baptism of penance, saying: That they should believe in him who was to come after him, that is to say, in Jesus. 
    5: Having heard these things, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.
    6: And when Paul had imposed his hands on them, the Holy Ghost came upon them, and they spoke with tongues and prophesied. 
    7: And all the men were about twelve. 
    8: And entering into the synagogue, he spoke boldly for the space of three months, disputing and exhorting concerning the kingdom of God. 
    9: But when some were hardened, and believed not, speaking evil of the way of the Lord, before the multitude, departing from them, he separated the disciples, disputing daily in the school of one Tyrannus. 
    10: And this continued for the space of two years, so that all they who dwelt in Asia, heard the word of the Lord, both Jews and Gentiles.
    11: And God wrought by the hand of Paul more than common miracles. 
    12: So that even there were brought from his body to the sick, handkerchiefs and aprons, and the diseases departed from them, and the wicked spirits went out of them. 
    13: Now some also of the Jewish exorcists who went about, attempted to invoke over them that had evil spirits, the name of the Lord Jesus, saying: I conjure you by Jesus, whom Paul preacheth. 
    14: And there were certain men, seven sons of Sceva, a Jew, a chief priest, that did this. 
    15: But the wicked spirit, answering, said to them: Jesus I know, and Paul I know; but who are you?
    16: And the man in whom the wicked spirit was, leaping upon them, and mastering them both, prevailed against them, so that they fled out of that house naked and wounded. 
    17: And this became known to all the Jews and the Gentiles that dwelt at Ephesus; and fear fell on them all, and the name of the Lord Jesus was magnified. 
    18: And many of them that believed, came confessing and declaring their deeds. 
    19: And many of them who had followed curious arts, brought together their books, and burnt them before all; and counting the price of them, they found the money to be fifty thousand pieces of silver. 
    20: So mightily grew the word of God, and was confirmed.
    21: And when these things were ended, Paul purposed in the spirit, when he had passed through Macedonia and Achaia, to go to Jerusalem, saying: After I have been there, I must see Rome also. 
    22: And sending into Macedonia two of them that ministered to him, Timothy and Erastus, he himself remained for a time in Asia. 
    23: Now at that time there arose no small disturbance about the way of the Lord. 
    24: For a certain man named Demetrius, a silversmith, who made silver temples for Diana, brought no small gain to the craftsmen; 
    25: Whom he calling together, with the workmen of like occupation, said: Sirs, you know that our gain is by this trade;
    26: And you see and hear, that this Paul by persuasion hath drawn away a great multitude, not only of Ephesus, but almost of all Asia, saying: They are not gods which are made by hands. 
    27: So that not only this our craft is in danger to be set at nought, but also the temple of great Diana shall be reputed for nothing; yea, and her majesty shall begin to be destroyed, whom all Asia and the world worshippeth. 
    28: Having heard these things, they were full of anger, and cried out, saying: Great is Diana of the Ephesians. 
    29: And the whole city was filled with confusion; and having caught Gaius and Aristarchus, men of Macedonia, Paul's companions, they rushed with one accord into the theatre. 
    30: And when Paul would have entered in unto the people, the disciples suffered him not.
    31: And some also of the rulers of Asia, who were his friends, sent unto him, desiring that he would not venture himself into the theatre. 
    32: Now some cried one thing, some another. For the assembly was confused, and the greater part knew not for what cause they were come together. 
    33: And they drew forth Alexander out of the multitude, the Jews thrusting him forward. And Alexander beckoning with his hand for silence, would have given the people satisfaction. 
    34: But as soon as they perceived him to be a Jew, all with one voice, for the space of about two hours, cried out: Great is Diana of the Ephesians. 
    35: And when the town clerk had appeased the multitudes, he said: Ye men of Ephesus, what man is there that knoweth not that the city of the Ephesians is a worshipper of the great Diana, and of Jupiter's offspring.
    36: For as much therefore as these things cannot be contradicted, you ought to be quiet, and to do nothing rashly. 
    37: For you have brought hither these men, who are neither guilty of sacrilege, nor of blasphemy against your goddess. 
    38: But if Demetrius and the craftsmen that are with him, have a matter against any man, the courts of justice are open, and there are proconsuls: let them accuse one another. 
    39: And if you inquire after any other matter, it may be decided in a lawful assembly. 
    40: For we are even in danger to be called in question for this day's uproar, there being no man guilty (of whom we may give account) of this concourse. And when he had said these things, he dismissed the assembly.

  Chapter 20.

    1: And after the tumult was ceased, Paul calling to him the disciples, and exhorting them, took his leave, and set forward to go into Macedonia. 
    2: And when he had gone over those parts, and had exhorted them with many words, he came into Greece; 
    3: Where, when he had spent three months, the Jews laid wait for him, as he was about to sail into Syria; so he took a resolution to return through Macedonia. 
    4: And there accompanied him Sopater the son of Pyrrhus, of Berea; and of the Thessalonians, Aristarchus, and Secundus, and Gaius of Derbe, and Timothy; and of Asia, Tychicus and Trophimus. 
    5: These going before, stayed for us at Troas.
    6: But we sailed from Philippi after the days of the Azymes, and came to them to Troas in five days, where we abode seven days. 
    7: And on the first day of the week, when we were assembled to break bread, Paul discoursed with them, being to depart on the morrow: and he continued his speech until midnight. 
    8: And there were a great number of lamps in the upper chamber where we were assembled. 
    9: And a certain young man named Eutychus, sitting on the window, being oppressed with a deep sleep, (as Paul was long preaching,) by occasion of his sleep fell from the third loft down, and was taken up dead. 
    10: To whom, when Paul had gone down, he laid himself upon him, and embracing him, said: Be not troubled, for his soul is in him.
    11: Then going up, and breaking bread and tasting, and having talked a long time to them, until daylight, so he departed. 
    12: And they brought the youth alive, and were not a little comforted. 
    13: But we, going aboard the ship, sailed to Assos, being there to take in Paul; for so he had appointed, himself purposing to travel by land. 
    14: And when he had met with us at Assos, we took him in, and came to Mitylene. 
    15: And sailing thence, the day following we came over against Chios; and the next day we arrived at Samos; and the day following we came to Miletus.
    16: For Paul had determined to sail by Ephesus, lest he should be stayed any time in Asia. For he hasted, if it were possible for him, to keep the day of Pentecost at Jerusalem. 
    17: And sending from Miletus to Ephesus, he called the ancients of the church. 
    18: And when they were come to him, and were together, he said to them: You know from the first day that I came into Asia, in what manner I have been with you, for all the time, 
    19: Serving the Lord with all humility, and with tears, and temptations which befell me by the conspiracies of the Jews; 
    20: How I have kept back nothing that was profitable to you, but have preached it to you, and taught you publicly, and from house to house,
    21: Testifying both to Jews and Gentiles penance towards God, and faith in our Lord Jesus Christ. 
    22: And now, behold, being bound in the spirit, I go to Jerusalem: not knowing the things which shall befall me there: 
    23: Save that the Holy Ghost in every city witnesseth to me, saying: That bands and afflictions wait for me at Jerusalem. 
    24: But I fear none of these things, neither do I count my life more precious than myself, so that I may consummate my course and the ministry of the word which I received from the Lord Jesus, to testify the gospel of the grace of God. 
    25: And now behold, I know that all you, among whom I have gone preaching the kingdom of God, shall see my face no more.
    26: Wherefore I take you to witness this day, that I am clear from the blood of all men; 
    27: For I have not spared to declare unto you all the counsel of God. 
    28: Take heed to yourselves, and to the whole flock, wherein the Holy Ghost hath placed you bishops, to rule the church of God, which he hath purchased with his own blood. 
    29: I know that, after my departure, ravening wolves will enter in among you, not sparing the flock. 
    30: And of your own selves shall arise men speaking perverse things, to draw away disciples after them.
    31: Therefore watch, keeping in memory, that for three years I ceased not, with tears to admonish every one of you night and day. 
    32: And now I commend you to God, and to the word of his grace, who is able to build up, and to give an inheritance among all the sanctified. 
    33: I have not coveted any man's silver, gold, or apparel, as 
    34: You yourselves know: for such things as were needful for me and them that are with me, these hands have furnished. 
    35: I have shewed you all things, how that so labouring you ought to support the weak, and to remember the word of the Lord Jesus, how he said: It is a more blessed thing to give, rather than to receive.
    36: And when he had said these things, kneeling down, he prayed with them all. 
    37: And there was much weeping among them all; and falling on the neck of Paul, they kissed him, 
    38: Being grieved most of all for the word which he had said, that they should see his face no more. And they brought him on his way to the ship.

End of day 311.