Day 293:

Reading Mark, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: And after six days Jesus taketh with him Peter and James and John, and leadeth them up into an high mountain apart by themselves, and was transfigured before them. 
    2: And his garments became shining and exceeding white as snow, so as no fuller upon earth can make white. 
    3: And there appeared to them Elias with Moses; and they were talking with Jesus. 
    4: And Peter answering, said to Jesus: Rabbi, it is good for us to be here: and let us make three tabernacles, one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias. 
    5: For he knew not what he said: for they were struck with fear.
    6: And there was a cloud overshadowing them: and a voice came out of the cloud, saying: This is my most beloved son; hear ye him. 
    7: And immediately looking about, they saw no man any more, but Jesus only with them. 
    8: And as they came down from the mountain, he charged them not to tell any man what things they had seen, till the Son of man shall be risen again from the dead. 
    9: And they kept the word to themselves; questioning together what that should mean, when he shall be risen from the dead. 
    10: And they asked him, saying: Why then do the Pharisees and scribes say that Elias must come first?
    11: Who answering, said to them: Elias, when he shall come first, shall restore all things; and as it is written of the Son of man, that he must suffer many things and be despised. 
    12: But I say to you, that Elias also is come, (and they have done to him whatsoever they would,) as it is written of him. 
    13: And coming to his disciples, he saw a great multitude about them, and the scribes disputing with them. 
    14: And presently all the people seeing Jesus, were astonished and struck with fear; and running to him, they saluted him. 
    15: And he asked them: What do you question about among you?
    16: And one of the multitude, answering, said: Master, I have brought my son to thee, having a dumb spirit. 
    17: Who, wheresoever he taketh him, dasheth him, and he foameth, and gnasheth with the teeth, and pineth away; and I spoke to thy disciples to cast him out, and they could not. 
    18: Who answering them, said: O incredulous generation, how long shall I be with you? how long shall I suffer you? bring him unto me. 
    19: And they brought him. And when he had seen him, immediately the spirit troubled him; and being thrown down upon the ground, he rolled about foaming. 
    20: And he asked his father: How long time is it since this hath happened unto him? But he said: From his infancy:
    21: And oftentimes hath he cast him into the fire and into waters to destroy him. But if thou canst do any thing, help us, having compassion on us. 
    22: And Jesus saith to him: If thou canst believe, all things are possible to him that believeth. 
    23: And immediately the father of the boy crying out, with tears said: I do believe, Lord: help my unbelief. 
    24: And when Jesus saw the multitude running together, he threatened the unclean spirit, saying to him: Deaf and dumb spirit, I command thee, go out of him; and enter not any more into him. 
    25: And crying out, and greatly tearing him, he went out of him, and he became as dead, so that many said: He is dead.
    26: But Jesus taking him by the hand, lifted him up; and he arose. 
    27: And when he was come into the house, his disciples secretly asked him: Why could not we cast him out? 
    28: And he said to them: This kind can go out by nothing, but by prayer and fasting. 
    29: And departing from thence, they passed through Galilee, and he would not that any man should know it. 
    30: And he taught his disciples, and said to them: The Son of man shall be betrayed into the hands of men, and they shall kill him; and after that he is killed, he shall rise again the third day.
    31: But they understood not the word, and they were afraid to ask him. 
    32: And they came to Capharnaum. And when they were in the house, he asked them: What did you treat of in the way? 
    33: But they held their peace, for in the way they had disputed among themselves, which of them should be the greatest. 
    34: And sitting down, he called the twelve, and saith to them: If any man desire to be first, he shall be the last of all, and the minister of all. 
    35: And taking a child, he set him in the midst of them. Whom when he had embraced, he saith to them:
    36: Whosoever shall receive one such child as this in my name, receiveth me. And whosoever shall receive me, receiveth not me, but him that sent me. 
    37: John answered him, saying: Master, we saw one casting out devils in thy name, who followeth not us, and we forbade him. 
    38: But Jesus said: Do not forbid him. For there is no man that doth a miracle in my name, and can soon speak ill of me. 
    39: For he that is not against you, is for you. 
    40: For whosoever shall give you to drink a cup of water in my name, because you belong to Christ: amen I say to you, he shall not lose his reward.
    41: And whosoever shall scandalize one of these little ones that believe in me; it were better for him that a millstone were hanged around his neck, and he were cast into the sea. 
    42: And if thy hand scandalize thee, cut it off: it is better for thee to enter into life, maimed, than having two hands to go into hell, into unquenchable fire: 
    43: Where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not extinguished. 
    44: And if thy foot scandalize thee, cut it off. It is better for thee to enter lame into life everlasting, than having two feet, to be cast into the hell of unquenchable fire: 
    45: Where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not extinguished.
    46: And if thy eye scandalize thee, pluck it out. It is better for thee with one eye to enter into the kingdom of God, than having two eyes to be cast into the hell of fire: 
    47: Where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not extinguished. 
    48: For every one shall be salted with fire: and every victim shall be salted with salt. 
    49: Salt is good. But if the salt became unsavoury; wherewith will you season it? Have salt in you, and have peace among you.

  Chapter 10.

    1: And rising up from thence, he cometh into the coasts of Judea beyond the Jordan: and the multitudes flock to him again. And as he was accustomed, he taught them again. 
    2: And the Pharisees coming to him asked him: Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife? tempting him. 
    3: But he answering, saith to them: What did Moses command you? 
    4: Who said: Moses permitted to write a bill of divorce, and to put her away. 
    5: To whom Jesus answering, said: Because of the hardness of your heart he wrote you that precept.
    6: But from the beginning of the creation, God made them male and female. 
    7: For this cause a man shall leave his father and mother; and shall cleave to his wife. 
    8: And they two shall be in one flesh. Therefore now they are not two, but one flesh. 
    9: What therefore God hath joined together, let not man put asunder. 
    10: And in the house again his disciples asked him concerning the same thing.
    11: And he saith to them: Whosoever shall put away his wife and marry another, committeth adultery against her. 
    12: And if the wife shall put away her husband, and be married to another, she committeth adultery. 
    13: And they brought to him young children, that he might touch them. And the disciples rebuked them that brought them. 
    14: Whom when Jesus saw, he was much displeased, and saith to them: Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not; for of such is the kingdom of God. 
    15: Amen I say to you, whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, shall not enter into it.
    16: And embracing them, and laying his hands upon them, he blessed them. 
    17: And when he was gone forth into the way, a certain man running up and kneeling before him, asked him, Good Master, what shall I do that I may receive life everlasting? 
    18: And Jesus said to him, Why callest thou me good? None is good but one, that is God. 
    19: Thou knowest the commandments: Do not commit adultery, do not kill, do not steal, bear not false witness, do no fraud, honour thy father and mother. 
    20: But he answering, said to him: Master, all these things I have observed from my youth.
    21: And Jesus looking on him, loved him, and said to him: One thing is wanting unto thee: go, sell whatsoever thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me. 
    22: Who being struck sad at that saying, went away sorrowful: for he had great possessions. 
    23: And Jesus looking round about, saith to his disciples: How hardly shall they that have riches, enter into the kingdom of God! 
    24: And the disciples were astonished at his words. But Jesus again answering, saith to them: Children, how hard is it for them that trust in riches, to enter into the kingdom of God? 
    25: It is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.
    26: Who wondered the more, saying among themselves: Who then can be saved? 
    27: And Jesus looking on them, saith: With men it is impossible; but not with God: for all things are possible with God. 
    28: And Peter began to say unto him: Behold, we have left all things, and have followed thee. 
    29: Jesus answering, said: Amen I say to you, there is no man who hath left house or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or children, or lands, for my sake and for the gospel, 
    30: Who shall not receive an hundred times as much, now in this time; houses, and brethren, and sisters, and mothers, and children, and lands, with persecutions: and in the world to come life everlasting.
    31: But many that are first, shall be last: and the last, first. 
    32: And they were in the way going up to Jerusalem: and Jesus went before them, and they were astonished; and following were afraid. And taking again the twelve, he began to tell them the things that should befall him. 
    33: Saying: Behold we go up to Jerusalem, and the Son of man shall be betrayed to the chief priests, and to the scribes and ancients, and they shall condemn him to death, and shall deliver him to the Gentiles. 
    34: And they shall mock him, and spit on him, and scourge him, and kill him: and the third day he shall rise again. 
    35: And James and John the sons of Zebedee, come to him, saying: Master, we desire that whatsoever we shall ask, thou wouldst do it for us:
    36: But he said to them: What would you that I should do for you? 
    37: And they said: Grant to us, that we may sit, one on thy right hand, and the other on thy left hand, in thy glory. 
    38: And Jesus said to them: You know not what you ask. Can you drink of the chalice that I drink of: or be baptized with the baptism wherewith I am baptized? 
    39: But they said to him: We can. And Jesus saith to them: You shall indeed drink of the chalice that I drink of: and with the baptism wherewith I am baptized, you shall be baptized. 
    40: But to sit on my right hand, or on my left, is not mine to give to you, but to them for whom it is prepared.
    41: And the ten hearing it, began to be much displeased at James and John. 
    42: But Jesus calling them, saith to them: You know that they who seem to rule over the Gentiles, lord it over them: and their princes have power over them. 
    43: But it is not so among you: but whosoever will be greater, shall be your minister. 
    44: And whosoever will be first among you, shall be the servant of all. 
    45: For the Son of man also is not come to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a redemption for many.
    46: And they came to Jericho: and as he went out of Jericho, with his disciples, and a very great multitude, Bartimeus the blind man, the son of Timeus, sat by the way side begging. 
    47: Who when he had heard, that it was Jesus of Nazareth, began to cry out, and to say: Jesus son of David, have mercy on me. 
    48: And many rebuked him, that he might hold his peace; but he cried a great deal the more: Son of David, have mercy on me. 
    49: And Jesus, standing still, commanded him to be called. And they call the blind man, saying to him: Be of better comfort: arise, he calleth thee. 
    50: Who casting off his garment leaped up, and came to him.
    51: And Jesus answering, said to him: What wilt thou that I should do to thee? And the blind man said to him: Rabboni, that I may see. 
    52: And Jesus saith to him: Go thy way, thy faith hath made thee whole. And immediately he saw, and followed him in the way.

  Chapter 11.

    1: And when they were drawing near to Jerusalem and to Bethania at the mount of Olives, he sendeth two of his disciples, 
    2: And saith to them: Go into the village that is over against you, and immediately at your coming in thither, you shall find a colt tied, upon which no man yet hath sat: loose him, and bring him. 
    3: And if any man shall say to you, What are you doing? say ye that the Lord hath need of him: and immediately he will let him come hither. 
    4: And going their way, they found the colt tied before the gate without, in the meeting of two ways: and they loose him. 
    5: And some of them that stood there, said to them: What do you loosing the colt?
    6: Who said to them as Jesus had commanded them; and they let him go with them. 
    7: And they brought the colt to Jesus; and they lay their garments on him, and he sat upon him. 
    8: And many spread their garments in the way: and others cut down boughs from the trees, and strewed them in the way. 
    9: And they that went before and they that followed, cried, saying: Hosanna, blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. 
    10: Blessed be the kingdom of our father David that cometh: Hosanna in the highest.
    11: And he entered into Jerusalem, into the temple: and having viewed all things round about, when now the eventide was come, he went out to Bethania with the twelve. 
    12: And the next day when they came out from Bethania, he was hungry. 
    13: And when he had seen afar off a fig tree having leaves, he came if perhaps he might find any thing on it. And when he was come to it, he found nothing but leaves. For it was not the time for figs. 
    14: And answering he said to it: May no man hereafter eat fruit of thee any more for ever. And his disciples heard it. 
    15: And they came to Jerusalem. And when he was entered into the temple, he began to cast out them that sold and bought in the temple, and overthrew the tables of the moneychangers, and the chairs of them that sold doves.
    16: And he suffered not that any man should carry a vessel through the temple; 
    17: And he taught, saying to them: Is it not written, My house shall be called the house of prayer to all nations? But you have made it a den of thieves. 
    18: Which when the chief priests and the scribes had heard, they sought how they might destroy him. For they feared him, because the whole multitude was in admiration at his doctrine. 
    19: And when evening was come, he went forth out of the city. 
    20: And when they passed by in the morning they saw the fig tree dried up from the roots.
    21: And Peter remembering, said to him: Rabbi, behold the fig tree, which thou didst curse, is withered away. 
    22: And Jesus answering, saith to them: Have the faith of God. 
    23: Amen I say to you, that whosoever shall say to this mountain, Be thou removed and be cast into the sea, and shall not stagger in his heart, but believe, that whatsoever he saith shall be done; it shall be done unto him. 
    24: Therefore I say unto you, all things, whatsoever you ask when ye pray, believe that you shall receive; and they shall come unto you. 
    25: And when you shall stand to pray, forgive, if you have aught against any man; that your Father also, who is in heaven, may forgive you your sins.
    26: But if you will not forgive, neither will your Father that is in heaven, forgive you your sins. 
    27: And they come again to Jerusalem. And when he was walking in the temple, there come to him the chief priests and the scribes and the ancients, 
    28: And they say to him: By what authority dost thou these things? and who hath given thee this authority that thou shouldst do these things? 
    29: And Jesus answering, said to them: I will also ask you one word, and answer you me, and I will tell you by what authority I do these things. 
    30: The baptism of John, was it from heaven, or from men? Answer me.
    31: But they thought with themselves, saying: If we say, From heaven; he will say, Why then did you not believe him? 
    32: If we say, From men, we fear the people. For all men counted John that he was a prophet indeed. 
    33: And they answering, say to Jesus: We know not. And Jesus answering, saith to them: Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things.

  Chapter 12.

    1: And he began to speak to them in parables: A certain man planted a vineyard and made a hedge about it, and dug a place for the winefat, and built a tower, and let it to husbandmen; and went into a far country. 
    2: And at the season he sent to the husbandmen a servant to receive of the husbandmen of the fruit of the vineyard. 
    3: Who having laid hands on him, beat him, and sent him away empty. 
    4: And again he sent to them another servant; and him they wounded in the head, and used him reproachfully. 
    5: And again he sent another, and him they killed: and many others, of whom some they beat, and others they killed.
    6: Therefore having yet one son, most dear to him; he also sent him unto them last of all, saying: They will reverence my son. 
    7: But the husbandmen said one to another: This is the heir; come let us kill him; and the inheritance shall be ours. 
    8: And laying hold on him, they killed him, and cast him out of the vineyard. 
    9: What therefore will the lord of the vineyard do? He will come and destroy those husbandmen; and will give the vineyard to others. 
    10: And have you not read this scripture, The stone which the builders rejected, the same is made the head of the corner:
    11: By the Lord has this been done, and it is wonderful in our eyes. 
    12: And they sought to lay hands on him, but they feared the people. For they knew that he spoke this parable to them. And leaving him, they went their way. 
    13: And they sent to him some of the Pharisees and of the Herodians; that they should catch him in his words. 
    14: Who coming, say to him: Master, we know that thou art a true speaker, and carest not for any man; for thou regardest not the person of men, but teachest the way of God in truth. Is it lawful to give tribute to Caesar; or shall we not give it? 
    15: Who knowing their wiliness, saith to them: Why tempt you me? bring me a penny that I may see it.
    16: And they brought it him. And he saith to them: Whose is this image and inscription? They say to him, Caesar's. 
    17: And Jesus answering, said to them: Render therefore to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's. And they marvelled at him. 
    18: And there came to him the Sadducees, who say there is no resurrection; and they asked him, saying: 
    19: Master, Moses wrote unto us, that if any man's brother die, and leave his wife behind him, and leave no children, his brother should take his wife, and raise up seed to his brother. 
    20: Now there were seven brethren; and the first took a wife, and died leaving no issue.
    21: And the second took her, and died: and neither did he leave any issue. And the third in like manner. 
    22: And the seven all took her in like manner; and did not leave issue. Last of all the woman also died. 
    23: In the resurrection therefore, when they shall rise again, whose wife shall she be of them? for the seven had her to wife. 
    24: And Jesus answering, saith to them: Do ye not therefore err, because you know not the scriptures, nor the power of God? 
    25: For when they shall rise again from the dead, they shall neither marry, nor be married, but are as the angels in heaven.
    26: And as concerning the dead that they rise again, have you not read in the book of Moses, how in the bush God spoke to him, saying: I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob? 
    27: He is not the God of the dead, but of the living. You therefore do greatly err. 
    28: And there came one of the scribes that had heard them reasoning together, and seeing that he had answered them well, asked him which was the first commandment of all. 
    29: And Jesus answered him: The first commandment of all is, Hear, O Israel: the Lord thy God is one God. 
    30: And thou shalt love the Lord thy God, with thy whole heart, and with thy whole soul, and with thy whole mind, and with thy whole strength. This is the first commandment.
    31: And the second is like to it: Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. There is no other commandment greater than these. 
    32: And the scribe said to him: Well, Master, thou hast said in truth, that there is one God, and there is no other besides him. 
    33: And that he should be loved with the whole heart, and with the whole understanding, and with the whole soul, and with the whole strength; and to love one's neighbour as one's self, is a greater thing than all holocausts and sacrifices. 
    34: And Jesus seeing that he had answered wisely, said to him: Thou art not far from the kingdom of God. And no man after that durst ask him any question. 
    35: And Jesus answering, said, teaching in the temple: How do the scribes say, that Christ is the son of David?
    36: For David himself saith by the Holy Ghost: The Lord said to my Lord, Sit on my right hand, until I make thy enemies thy footstool. 
    37: David therefore himself calleth him Lord, and whence is he then his son? And a great multitude heard him gladly. 
    38: And he said to them in his doctrine: Beware of the scribes, who love to walk in long robes, and to be saluted in the marketplace, 
    39: And to sit in the first chairs, in the synagogues, and to have the highest places at suppers: 
    40: Who devour the houses of widows under the pretence of long prayer: these shall receive greater judgment.
    41: And Jesus sitting over against the treasury, beheld how the people cast money into the treasury, and many that were rich cast in much. 
    42: And there came a certain poor widow, and she cast in two mites, which make a farthing. 
    43: And calling his disciples together, he saith to them: Amen I say to you, this poor widow hath cast in more than all they who have cast into the treasury. 
    44: For all they did cast in of their abundance; but she of her want cast in all she had, even her whole living.

End of day 293.