Day 66:

Reading 1-Samuel, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: Now the Philistines gathering together their troops to battle, assembled at Socho of Juda, and camped between Socho and Azeca in the borders of Dommim. 
    2: And Saul and the children of Israel being gathered together came to the valley of Terebinth, and they set the army in array to fight against the Philistines. 
    3: And the Philistines stood on a mountain on the one side, and Israel stood on a mountain on the other side: and there was a valley between them. 
    4: And there went out a man baseborn from the camp of the Philistines named Goliath, of Geth, whose height was six cubits and a span: 
    5: And he had a helmet of brass upon his head, and he was clothed with a coat of mail with scales, and the weight of his coat of mail was five thousand sicles of brass:
    6: And he had greaves of brass on his legs, and a buckler of brass covered his shoulders. 
    7: And the staff of his spear was like a weaver's beam, and the head of his spear weighed six hundred sicles of iron: and his armourbearer went before him. 
    8: And standing he cried out to the bands of Israel, and said to them: Why are you come out prepared to fight? am not I a Philistine, and you the servants of Saul? Choose out a man of you, and let him come down and fight hand to hand. 
    9: If he be able to fight with me, and kill me, we will be servants to you: but if I prevail against him, and kill him, you shall be servants, and shall serve us. 
    10: And the Philistine said: I have defied the bands of Israel this day: Give me a man, and let him fight with me hand to hand.
    11: And Saul and all the Israelites hearing these words of the Philistine were dismayed, and greatly afraid. 
    12: Now David was the son of that Ephrathite of Bethlehem Juda before mentioned, whose name was Isai, who had eight sons, and was an old man in the days of Saul, and of great age among men. 
    13: And his three eldest sons followed Saul to the battle: and the names of his three sons that went to the battle, were Eliab the firstborn, and the second Abinadab, and the third Samma. 
    14: But David was the youngest. So the three eldest having followed Saul, 
    15: David went, and returned from Saul, to feed his father's flock at Bethlehem.
    16: Now the Philistine came out morning and evening, and presented himself forty days. 
    17: And Isai said to David his son: Take for thy brethren an ephi of frumenty, and these ten loaves, and run to the camp to thy brethren. 
    18: And carry these ten little cheeses to the tribune: and go see thy brethren, if they are well: and learn with whom they are placed. 
    19: But Saul, and they, and all the children of Israel were in the valley of Terebinth fighting against the Philistines. 
    20: David therefore arose in the morning, and gave the charge of the flock to the keeper: and went away loaded as Isai had commanded him. And he came to the place of Magala, and to the army, which was going out to fight, and shouted for the battle.
    21: For Israel had put themselves in array, and the Philistines who stood against them were prepared. 
    22: And David leaving the vessels which he had brought, under the care of the keeper of the baggage, ran to the place of the battle and asked if all things went well with his brethren. 
    23: And as he talked with them, that baseborn man whose name was Goliath, the Philistine, of Geth, shewed himself coming up from the camp of the Philistines: and he spoke according to the same words, and David heard them. 
    24: And all the Israelites when they saw the man, fled from his face, fearing him exceedingly. 
    25: And some one of Israel said: Have you seen this man that is come up, for he is come up to defy Israel. And the man that shall slay him, the king will enrich with great riches, and will give him his daughter, and will make his father's house free from tribute in Israel.
    26: And David spoke to the men that stood by him, saying: What shall be given to the man that shall kill this Philistine, and shall take away the reproach from Israel? for who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should defy the armies of the living God? 
    27: And the people answered him the same words saying: These things shall be given to the man that shall slay him. 
    28: Now when Eliab his eldest brother heard this, when he was speaking with others, he was angry with David, and said: Why earnest thou hither? and why didst thou leave those few sheep in the desert? I know thy pride, and the wickedness of thy heart: that thou art come down to see the battle. 
    29: And David said: What have I done? is there not cause to speak? 
    30: And he turned a little aside from him to another: and said the same word. And the people answered him as before.
    31: And the words which David spoke were heard, and were rehearsed before Saul. 
    32: And when he was brought to him, he said to him: Let not any man's heart be dismayed in him: I thy servant will go, and will fight against the Philistine. 
    33: And Saul said to David: Thou art not able to withstand this Philistine, nor to fight against him: for thou art but a boy, but he is a warrior from his youth. 
    34: And David said to Saul: Thy servant kept his father's sheep, and there came a lion, or a bear, and took a ram out of the midst of the flock: 
    35: And I pursued after them, and struck them, and delivered it out of their mouth: and they rose up against me, and I caught them by the throat, and I strangled and killed them.
    36: For I thy servant have killed both a lion and a bear: and this uncircumcised Philistine shall be also as one of them. I will go now, and take away the reproach of the people: for who is this uncircumcised Philistine, who hath dared to curse the army of the living God? 
    37: And David said: The Lord who delivered me out of the paw of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine. And Saul said to David: Go, and the Lord be with thee. 
    38: And Saul clothed David with his garments, and put a helmet of brass upon his head, and armed him with a coat of mail. 
    39: And David having girded his sword upon his armour, began to try if he could walk in armour: for he was not accustomed to it. And David said to Saul: I cannot go thus, for I am not used to it. And he laid them off, 
    40: And he took his staff, which he had always in his hands: and chose him five smooth stones out of the brook, and put them into the shepherd's scrip, which he had with him, and he took a sling in his hand, and went forth against the Philistine.
    41: And the Philistine came on, and drew nigh against David, and his armourbearer before him. 
    42: And when the Philistine looked, and beheld David, he despised him. For he was a young man, ruddy, and of a comely countenance. 
    43: And the Philistine said to David: Am I a dog, that thou comest to me with a staff? And the Philistine cursed David by his gods. 
    44: And he said to David: Come to me, and I will give thy flesh to the birds of the air, and to the beasts of the earth. 
    45: And David said to the Philistine: Thou comest to me with a sword, and with a spear, and with a shield: but I come to thee in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, which thou hast defied.
    46: This day, and the Lord will deliver thee into my hand, and I will slay thee, and take away thy head from thee: and I will give the carcasses of the army of the Philistines this day to the birds of the air, and to the beasts of the earth: that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel. 
    47: And all this assembly shall know, that the Lord saveth not with sword and spear: for it is his battle, and he will deliver you into our hands. 
    48: And when the Philistine arose and was coming, and drew nigh to meet David, David made haste, and ran to the fight to meet the Philistine. 
    49: And he put his hand into his scrip, and took a stone, and cast it with the sling, and fetching it about struck the Philistine in the forehead: and the stone was fixed in his forehead, and he fell on his face upon the earth. 
    50: And David prevailed over the Philistine, with a sling and a stone, and he struck, and slew the Philistine. And as David had no sword in his hand,
    51: He ran, and stood over the Philistine, and took his sword, and drew it out of the sheath, and slew him, and cut off his head. And the Philistines seeing that their champion was dead, fled away. 
    52: And the men of Israel and Juda rising up shouted, and pursued after the Philistines till they came to the valley and to the gates of Accaron, and there fell many wounded of the Philistines in the way of Saraim, and as far as Geth, and as far as Accaron. 
    53: And the children of Israel returning, after they had pursued the Philistines, fell upon their camp. 
    54: And David taking the head of the Philistine brought it to Jerusalem: but his armour he put in his tent. 
    55: Now at the time that Saul saw David going out against the Philistines, he said to Abner the captain of the army: Of what family is this young man descended, Abner? And Abner said: As thy soul liveth, O king, I know not.
    56: And the king said: Inquire thou, whose son this man is. 
    57: And when David was returned, after the Philistine was slain, Abner took him, and brought him in before Saul, with the head of the Philistine in his hand. 
    58: And Saul said to him: Young man, of what family art thou? And David said: I am the son of thy servant Isai the Bethlehemite.

  Chapter 18.

    1: And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking to Saul, the soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul. 
    2: And Saul took him that day, and would not let him return to his father's house. 
    3: And David and Jonathan made a covenant, for be loved him as his own soul. 
    4: And Jonathan stripped himself of the coat with which he was clothed, and gave it to David, and the rest of his garments, even to his sword, and to his bow, and to his girdle. 
    5: And David went out to whatsoever business Saul sent him, and he behaved himself prudently: and Saul set him over the soldiers, and he was acceptable in the eyes of all the people, and especially in the eyes of Saul's servants.
    6: Now when David returned, after be slew the Philistine, the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet king Saul, with timbrels of joy, and cornets. 
    7: And the women sung as they played, and they said: I Saul slew his thousands, and David his ten thousands. 
    8: And Saul was exceeding angry, and this word was displeasing in his eyes, and he said: They have given David ten thousands, and to me they have given but a thousand; what can he have more but the kingdom? 
    9: And Saul did not look on David with a good eye from that day and forward. 
    10: And the day after the evil spirit from God came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of his house. And David played with his hand as at other times. And Saul held a spear in his hand,
    11: And threw it, thinking to nail David to the wall: and David stept aside out of his presence twice. 
    12: And Saul feared David, because the Lord was with him, and was departed from himself. 
    13: Therefore Saul removed him from him, and made him a captain over a thousand men, and he went out and came in before the people. 
    14: And David behaved wisely in all his ways, and the Lord was with him. 
    15: And Saul saw that he was exceeding prudent, and began to beware of him.
    16: But all Israel and Juda loved David, for he came in and went out before them. 
    17: And Saul said to David: Behold my elder daughter Merob, her will I give thee to wife: only be a valiant man, and fight the battles of the Lord. Now Saul said within himself: Let not my hand be upon him, but let the hands of the Philistines be upon him. 
    18: And David said to Saul: Who am I, or what is my life, or my father's family in Israel, that I should be son in law of the king? 
    19: And it came to pass at the time when Merob the daughter of Saul should have been given to David, that she was given to Hadriel the Molathite to wife. 
    20: But Michol the other daughter of Saul loved David. And it was told Saul, and it pleased him.
    21: And Saul said: I will give her to him, that she may be a stumblingblock to him, and that the band of the Philistines may be upon him. And Saul said to David: In two things thou shalt be my son in law this day. 
    22: And Saul commanded his servants to speak to David privately, saying: Behold thou pleasest the king, and all his servants love thee. Now therefore be the king's son in law. 
    23: And the servants of Saul spoke all these words in the ears of David. And David said: Doth it seem to you a small matter to be the king's son in law? But I am a poor man, and of small ability. 
    24: And the servants of Saul told him, saying: Such words as these hath David spoken. 
    25: And Saul said: Speak thus to David: The king desireth not any dowry, but only a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be avenged of the king's enemies. Now Saul thought to deliver David into the hands of the Philistines.
    26: And when his servants had told David the words that Saul had said, the word was pleasing in the eyes of David to be the king's son in law. 
    27: And after a few days David rose up, and went with the men that were under him, and he slew of the Philistines two hundred men, and brought their foreskins and numbered them out to the king, that he might be his son in law. Saul therefore gave him Michol his daughter to wife. 
    28: And Saul saw, and understood that the Lord was with David. And Michol the daughter of Saul loved him. 
    29: And Saul began to fear David more: and Saul became David's enemy continually. 
    30: And the princes of the Philistines went forth: and from the beginning of their going forth, David behaved himself more wisely than all the servants of Saul, and his name became very famous.

  Chapter 19.

    1: And Saul spoke to Jonathan his son and to all his servants, that they should kill David. But Jonathan the son of Saul loved David exceedingly. 
    2: And Jonathan told David, saying: Saul my father seeketh to kill thee: wherefore look to thyself, I beseech thee, in the morning, and thou shalt abide in a secret place and shalt be hid. 
    3: And I will go out and stand beside my father in the field where thou art: and I will speak of thee to my father, and whatsoever I shall see, I will tell thee. 
    4: And Jonathan spoke good things of David to Saul his father: and said to him: Sin not, O king, against thy servant, David, because he hath not sinned against thee, and his works are very good towards thee. 
    5: And he put his life in his hand, and slew the Philistine, and the Lord wrought great salvation for all Israel. Thou sawest it and didst rejoice. Why therefore wilt thou sin against innocent blood by killing David, who is without fault?
    6: And when Saul heard this he was appeased with the words of Jonathan, and swore: As the Lord liveth he shall not be slain. 
    7: Then Jonathan called David and told him all these words: and Jonathan brought in David to Saul, and he was before him, as he had been yesterday and the day before. 
    8: And the war began again, and David went out and fought against the Philistines, and defeated them with a great slaughter, and they fled from his face. 
    9: And the evil spirit from the Lord came upon Saul, and he sat in his house, and held a spear in his hand: and David played with his hand. 
    10: And Saul endeavoured to nail David to the wall with his spear. And David slipt away out of the presence of Saul: and the spear missed him, and was fastened in the wall, and David fled and escaped that night.
    11: Saul therefore sent his guards to David's house to watch him, that he might be killed in the morning. And when Michol David's wife had told him this, saying: Unless thou save thyself this night, tomorrow thou wilt die, 
    12: She let him down through a window. And he went and fled away and escaped. 
    13: And Michol took an image and laid it on the bed, and put a goat's skin with the hair at the head of it, and covered it with clothes. 
    14: And Saul sent officers to seize David: and it was answered that he was sick. 
    15: And again Saul sent to see David, saying: Bring him to me in the bed, that he may be slain.
    16: And when the messengers were come in, they found an image upon the bed, and a goat's skin at its head. 
    17: And Saul said to Michol: Why hast thou deceived me so, and let my enemy go and flee away? And Michol answered Saul: Because he said to me: Let me go, or else I will kill thee. 
    18: But David fled and escaped, and came to Samuel in Ramatha, and told him all that Saul had done to him: and he and Samuel went and dwelt in Najoth. 
    19: And it was told Saul by some, saying: Behold David is in Najoth in Ramatha. 
    20: So Saul sent officers to take David: and when they saw a company of prophets prophesying, and Samuel presiding over them, the spirit of the Lord came also upon them, and they likewise began to prophesy.
    21: And when this was told Saul, he sent other messengers: but they also prophesied. And again Saul sent messengers the third time: and they prophesied also. And Saul being exceedingly angry, 
    22: Went also himself to Ramatha, and came as far as the great cistern, which is in Socho, and he asked, and said: In what place are Samuel and David? And it was told him: Behold they are in Najoth in Ramatha. 
    23: And he went to Najoth in Ramatha, and the spirit of the Lord came upon him also, and he went on, and prophesied till he came to Najoth in Ramatha. 
    24: And he stripped himself also of his garments, and prophesied with the rest before Samuel, and lay down naked all that day and night. This gave occasion to a proverb: What! is Saul too among the prophets?

  Chapter 20.

    1: But David fled from Najoth, which is in Ramatha, and came and said to Jonathan: What have I done? what is my iniquity, and what is my sin against thy father, that he seeketh my life? 
    2: And he said to him: God forbid, thou shalt not die: for my father will do nothing great or little, without first telling me: hath then my father hid this word only from me? no, this shall not be. 
    3: And he swore again to David. And David said: Thy father certainly knoweth that I have found grace in thy sight, and he will say: Let not Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved. But truly as the Lord liveth, and thy soul liveth, there is but one step (as I may say) between me and death. 
    4: And Jonathan said to David: Whatsoever thy soul shall say to me, I will do for thee. 
    5: And David said to Jonathan: Behold tomorrow is the new moon, and I according to custom am wont to sit beside the king to eat: let me go then that I may be hid in the field till the evening of the third day.
    6: If thy father look and inquire for me, thou shalt answer him: David asked me that he might run to Bethlehem his own city: because there are solemn sacrifices there for all his tribe. 
    7: If he shall say, It is well: thy servant shall have peace: but if he be angry, know that his malice is come to its height. 
    8: Deal mercifully then with thy servant: for thou hast brought me thy servant into a covenant of the Lord with thee. But if there be any iniquity in me, do thou kill me, and bring me not in to thy father. 
    9: And Jonathan said: Far be this from thee: for if I should certainly know that evil is determined by my father against thee, I could do no otherwise than tell thee. 
    10: And David answered Jonathan: Who shall bring me word, if thy father should answer thee harshly concerning me?
    11: And Jonathan said to David: Come and let us go out into the field. And when they were both of them gone out into the field, 
    12: Jonathan said to David: O Lord God of Israel, if I shall discover my father's mind, tomorrow or the day after, and there be any thing good for David, and I send not immediately to thee, and make it known to thee, 
    13: May the Lord do so and so to Jonathan and add still more. But if my father shall continue in malice against thee, I will discover it to thy ear, and will send thee away, that thou mayest go in peace, and the Lord be with thee, as he hath been with my father. 
    14: And if I live, thou shalt shew me the kindness of the Lord: but if I die, 
    15: Thou shalt not take away thy kindness from my house for ever, when the Lord shall have rooted out the enemies of David, every one of them from the earth, may he take away Jonathan from his house, and may the Lord require it at the hands of David's enemies.
    16: Jonathan therefore made a covenant with the house of David: and the Lord required it at the hands of David's enemies. 
    17: And Jonathan swore again to David, because he loved him: for he loved him as his own soul. 
    18: And Jonathan said to him: Tomorrow is the new moon, and thou wilt be missed: 
    19: For thy seat will be empty till after tomorrow. So thou shalt go down quickly, and come to the place, where thou must be hid on the day when it is lawful to work, and thou shalt remain beside the stone, which is called Ezel. 
    20: And I will shoot three arrows near it, and will shoot as if I were exercising myself at a mark.
    21: And I will send a boy, saying to him: Go and fetch me the arrows. 
    22: If I shall say to the boy: Behold the arrows are on this side of thee, take them up: come thou to me, because, there is peace to thee, and there is no evil, as the Lord liveth. But if I shall speak thus to the boy: Behold the arrows are beyond thee: go in peace, for the Lord hath sent thee away. 
    23: And concerning the word which I and thou have spoken, the Lord be between thee and me for ever. 
    24: So David was hid in the field, and the new moon came, and the king sat down to eat bread. 
    25: And when the king sat down upon his chair (according to custom) which was beside the wall, Jonathan arose, and Abner sat by Saul's side, and David's place appeared empty.
    26: And Saul said nothing that day, for he thought it might have happened to him, that he was not clean, nor purified. 
    27: And when the second day after the new moon was come, David's place appeared empty again. And Saul said to Jonathan his son: Why cometh not the son of Isai to meat neither yesterday nor today? 
    28: And Jonathan answered Saul: He asked leave of me earnestly to go to Bethlehem, 
    29: And he said: Let me go, for there is a solemn sacrifice in the city, one of my brethren hath sent for me: and now if I have found favour in thy eyes, I will go quickly, and see my brethren. For this cause he came not to the king's table. 
    30: Then Saul being angry against Jonathan said to him: Thou son of a woman that is the ravisher of a man, do I not know that thou lovest the son of Isai to thy own confusion and to the confusion of thy shameless mother?
    31: For as long as the son of Isai liveth upon earth, thou shalt not be established, nor thy kingdom. Therefore now presently send, and fetch him to me: for he is the son of death. 
    32: And Jonathan answering Saul his father, said: Why shall he die: what hath he done? 
    33: And Saul caught up a spear to strike him. And Jonathan understood that it was determined by his father to kill David. 
    34: So Jonathan rose from the table in great anger, and did not eat bread on the second day after the new moon. For he was grieved for David, because his father had put him to confusion. 
    35: And when the morning came, Jonathan went into the field, according to the appointment with David, and a little boy with him.
    36: And he said to his boy: Go, and fetch me the arrows which I shoot. And when the boy ran, he shot another arrow beyond the boy. 
    37: The boy therefore came to the place of the arrow which Jonathan had shot: and Jonathan cried after the boy, and said: Behold the arrow is there further beyond thee. 
    38: And Jonathan cried again after the boy, saying: Make haste speedily, stand not. And Jonathan's boy gathered up the arrows, and brought them to his master: 
    39: And he knew not at all what was doing: for only Jonathan and David knew the matter. 
    40: Jonathan therefore gave his arms to the boy, and said to him: Go, and carry them into the city.
    41: And when the boy was gone, David rose out of his place, which was towards the south, and falling on his face to the ground, adored thrice: and kissing one another, they wept together, but David more. 
    42: And Jonathan said to David: Go in peace: and let all stand that we have sworn both of us in the name of the Lord, saying: The Lord be between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed for ever. 
    43: And David arose, and departed: and Jonathan went into the city.

End of day 66.