Day 158:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['57', '58', '59', '60']:

  Chapter 57.

    1: Unto the end, destroy not, for David, for an inscription of a title. 
    2: If in very deed you speak justice: judge right things, ye sons of men. 
    3: For in your heart you work iniquity: your hands forge injustice in the earth. 
    4: The wicked are alienated from the womb; they have gone astray from the womb: they have spoken false things. 
    5: Their madness is according to the likeness of a serpent: like the deaf asp that stoppeth her ears:
    6: Which will not hear the voice of the charmers; nor of the wizard that charmeth wisely. 
    7: God shall break in pieces their teeth in their mouth: the Lord shall break the grinders of the lions. 
    8: They shall come to nothing, like water running down; he hath bent his bow till they be weakened. 
    9: Like wax that melteth they shall be taken away: fire hath fallen on them, and they shall not see the sun. 
    10: Before your thorns could know the brier; he swalloweth them up, as alive, in his wrath.
    11: The just shall rejoice when he shall see the revenge: he shall wash his hands in the blood of the sinner. 
    12: And man shall say: If indeed there be fruit to the just: there is indeed a God that judgeth them on the earth.

  Chapter 58.

    1: Unto the end, destroy not, for David for an inscription of It title, when Saul sent and watched his house to kill him. 
    2: Deliver me from my enemies, O my God; and defend me from them that rise up against me. 
    3: Deliver me from them that work iniquity, and save me from bloody men. 
    4: For behold they have caught my soul: the mighty have rushed in upon me: 
    5: Neither is it my iniquity, nor my sin, O Lord: without iniquity have I run, and directed my steps.
    6: Rise up thou to meet me, and behold: even thou, O Lord, the God of hosts, the God of Israel. Attend to visit all the nations: have no mercy on all them that work iniquity. 
    7: They shall return at evening, and shall suffer hunger like dogs: and shall go round about the city. 
    8: Behold they shall speak with their mouth, and a sword is in their lips: for who, say they, hath heard us? 
    9: But thou, O Lord, shalt laugh at them: thou shalt bring all the nations to nothing. 
    10: I will keep my strength to thee: for thou art my protector:
    11: My God, his mercy shall prevent me. 
    12: God shall let me see over my enemies: slay them not, lest at any time my people forget. Scatter them by thy power; and bring them down, O Lord, my protector: 
    13: For the sin of their mouth, and the word of their lips: and let them be taken in their pride. And for their cursing and lying they shall be talked of, 
    14: When they are consumed: when they are consumed by thy wrath, and they shall be no more. And they shall know that God will rule Jacob, and all the ends of the earth. 
    15: They shall return at evening and shall suffer hunger like dogs: and shall go round about the city.
    16: They shall be scattered abroad to eat, and shall murmur if they be not filled. 
    17: But I will sing thy strength: and will extol thy mercy in the morning. For thou art become my support, and my refuge, in the day of my trouble. 
    18: Unto thee, O my helper, will I sing, for thou art God my defence: my God my mercy.

  Chapter 59.

    1: Unto the end, for them that shall be changed, for the inscription of a title, to David himself, for doctrine, 
    2: When he set fire to Mesopotamia of Syria and Sobal and Joab returned and slew of Edom, in the vale of the saltpits, twelve thousand men. 
    3: O God, thou hast cast us off, and hast destroyed us; thou hast been angry, and hast had mercy on us. 
    4: Thou hast moved the earth, and hast troubled it: heal thou the breaches thereof, for it has been moved. 
    5: Thou hast shewn thy people hard things; thou hast made us drink wine of sorrow.
    6: Thou hast given a warning to them that fear thee: that they may flee from before the bow: That thy beloved may be delivered. 
    7: Save me with thy right hand, and hear me. 
    8: God hath spoken in his holy place: I will rejoice, and I will divide Sichem; and will mete out the vale of tabernacles. 
    9: Galaad is mine, and Manasses is mine: and Ephraim is the strength of my head. Juda is my king: 
    10: Moab is the pot of my hope. Into Edom will I stretch out my shoe: to me the foreigners are made subject.
    11: Who will bring me into the strong city? who will lead me into Edom? 
    12: Wilt not thou, O God, who hast cast us off? and wilt not thou, O God, go out with our armies? 
    13: Give us help from trouble: for vain is the salvation of man. 
    14: Through God we shall do mightily: and he shall bring to nothing them that afflict us.

  Chapter 60.

    1: Unto the end, in hymns, for David. 
    2: Hear, O God, my supplication: be attentive to my prayer, 
    3: To thee have I cried from the ends of the earth: when my heart was in anguish, thou hast exalted me on a rock. Thou hast conducted me; 
    4: For thou hast been my hope; a tower of strength against the face of the enemy. 
    5: In thy tabernacle I shall dwell for ever: I shall be protected under the covert of thy wings.
    6: For thou, my God, hast heard my prayer: thou hast given an inheritance to them that fear thy name. 
    7: Thou wilt add days to the days of the king: his years even to generation and generation. 
    8: He abideth for ever in the sight of God: his mercy and truth who shall search? 
    9: So will I sing a psalm to thy name for ever and ever: that I may pay my vows from day to day.

End of day 158.