Day 135:

Reading Job, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: And Job answered, and said: 
    2: Indeed I know it is so, and that man cannot be justified compared with God. 
    3: If he will contend with him, he cannot answer him one for a thousand. 
    4: He is wise in heart, and mighty in strength: who hath resisted him, and hath had peace? 
    5: Who hath removed mountains, and they whom he overthrew in his wrath, knew it not.
    6: Who shaketh the earth out of her place, and the pillars thereof tremble. 
    7: Who commandeth the sun and it riseth not: and shutteth up the stars as it were under a seal: 
    8: Who alone spreadeth out the heavens, and walketh upon the waves of the sea. 
    9: Who maketh Arcturus, and Orion, and Hyades, and the inner parts of the south. 
    10: Who doth things great and incomprehensible, and wonderful, of which there is no number.
    11: If he come to me, I shall not see him: if he depart I shall not understand. 
    12: If he examine on a sudden, who shall answer him? or who can say: Why dost thou so? 
    13: God, whose wrath no man can resist, and under whom they stoop that bear up the world. 
    14: What am I then, that I should answer him, and have words with him? 
    15: I, who although I should have any just thing, would not answer, but would make supplication to my judge.
    16: And if he should hear me when I call, I should not believe that he had heard my voice. 
    17: For he shall crush me in a whirlwind, and multiply my wounds even without cause. 
    18: He alloweth not my spirit to rest, and he filleth me with bitterness. 
    19: If strength be demanded, he is most strong: if equity of judgment, no man dare bear witness for me. 
    20: If I would justify myself, my own mouth shall condemn me: if I would shew myself innocent, he shall prove me wicked.
    21: Although I should be simple, even this my soul shall be ignorant of, and I shall be weary of my life. 
    22: One thing there is that I have spoken, both the innocent and the wicked he consumeth. 
    23: If he scourge, let him kill at once, and not laugh at the pains of the innocent. 
    24: The earth is given into the hand of the wicked, he covereth the face of the judges thereof: and if it be not he, who is it then? 
    25: My days have been swifter than a post: they have fled away and have not seen good.
    26: They have passed by as ships carrying fruits, as an eagle flying to the prey. 
    27: If I say: I will not speak so: I change my face, and am tormented with sorrow. 
    28: I feared all my works, knowing that thou didst not spare the offender. 
    29: But if so also I am wicked, why have I laboured in vain? 
    30: If I be washed as it were with snow waters, and my hands shall shine ever so clean:
    31: Yet thou shalt plunge me in filth, and my garments shall abhor me, 
    32: For I shall not answer a man that is like myself: nor one that may be heard with me equally in judgment. 
    33: There is none that may be able to reprove both, and to put his hand between both. 
    34: Let him take his rod away from me, and let not his fear terrify me. 
    35: I will speak, and will not fear him: for I cannot answer while I am in fear.

  Chapter 10.

    1: My soul is weary of my life, I will let go my speech against myself, I will speak in the bitterness of my soul. 
    2: I will say to God: Do not condemn me: tell me why thou judgest me so. 
    3: Doth it seem good to thee that thou shouldst calumniate me, and oppress me, the work of thy own hands, and help the counsel of the wicked? 
    4: Hast thou eyes of flesh: or, shalt thou see as man seeth? 
    5: Are thy days as the days of man, and are thy years as the times of men:
    6: That thou shouldst inquire after my iniquity, and search after my sin? 
    7: And shouldst know that I have done no wicked thing, whereas there is no man that can deliver out of thy hand. 
    8: Thy hands have made me, and fashioned me wholly round about, and dost thou thus cast me down headlong on a sudden? 
    9: Remember, I beseech thee, that thou hast made me as the clay, and thou wilt bring me into dust again. 
    10: Hast thou not milked me as milk, and curdled me like cheese?
    11: Thou hast clothed me with skin and flesh: thou hast put me together with bones and sinews: 
    12: Thou hast granted me life and mercy, and thy visitation hath preserved my spirit. 
    13: Although thou conceal these things in thy heart, yet I know that thou rememberest all things. 
    14: If I have sinned and thou hast spared me for an hour: why dost thou not suffer me to be clean from my iniquity? 
    15: And if I be wicked, woe unto me: and if just, I shall not lift up my head, being filled with affliction and misery.
    16: And for pride thou wilt take me as a lioness, and returning thou tormentest me wonderfully. 
    17: Thou renewest thy witnesses against me, and multipliest thy wrath upon me, and pains war against me. 
    18: Why didst thou bring me forth out of the womb: O that I had been consumed that eye might not see me! 
    19: I should have been as if I had not been, carried from the womb to the grave. 
    20: Shall not the fewness of my days be ended shortly? suffer me, therefore, that I may lament my sorrow a little:
    21: Before I go, and return no more, to a land that is dark and covered with the mist of death: 
    22: A land of misery and darkness, where the shadow of death, and no order, but everlasting horror dwelleth.

  Chapter 11.

    1: Then Sophar the Naamathite answered, and said: 
    2: Shall not he that speaketh much, hear also? or shall a man full of talk be justified? 
    3: Shall men hold their peace to thee only? and when thou hast mocked others, shall no man confute thee? 
    4: For thou hast said: My word is pure, and I am clean in thy sight. 
    5: And I wish that God would speak with thee, and would open his lips to thee,
    6: That he might shew thee the secrets of wisdom, and that his law is manifold, and thou mightest understand that he exacteth much less of thee, than thy iniquity deserveth. 
    7: Peradventure thou wilt comprehend the steps of God, and wilt find out the Almighty perfectly? 
    8: He is higher than heaven, and what wilt thou do? he is deeper than hell, and how wilt thou know? 
    9: The measure of him is longer than the earth, and broader than the sea. 
    10: If he shall overturn all things, or shall press them together, who shall contradict him?
    11: For he knoweth the vanity of men, and when he seeth iniquity, doth he not consider it? 
    12: A vain man is lifted up into pride, and thinketh himself born free like a wild ass's colt. 
    13: But thou hast hardened thy heart, and hast spread thy hands to him. 
    14: If thou wilt put away from thee the iniquity that is in thy hand, and let not injustice remain in thy tabernacle: 
    15: Then mayst thou lift up thy face without spot, and thou shalt be steadfast, and shalt not fear.
    16: Thou shalt also forget misery, and remember it only as waters that are passed away. 
    17: And brightness like that of the noonday, shall arise to thee at evening: and when thou shalt think thyself consumed, thou shalt rise as the day star. 
    18: And thou shalt have confidence, hope being set before thee, and being buried thou shalt sleep secure. 
    19: Thou shalt rest, and there shall be none to make thee afraid: and many shall entreat thy face. 
    20: But the eyes of the wicked shall decay, and the way to escape shall fail them, and their hope the abomination of the soul.

  Chapter 12.

    1: When Job answered, and said: 
    2: Are you then men alone, and shall wisdom die with you? 
    3: I also have a heart as well as you: for who is ignorant of these things, which you know? 
    4: He that is mocked by his friends as I, shall call upon God and he will hear him: for the simplicity of the just man is laughed to scorn. 
    5: The lamp despised in the thoughts of the rich, is ready for the time appointed.
    6: The tabernacles of robbers abound, and they provoke God boldly; whereas it is he that hath given all into their hands: 
    7: But ask now the beasts, and they shall teach thee: and the birds of the air, and they shall tell thee. 
    8: Speak to the earth, and it shall answer thee: and the fishes of the sea shall tell. 
    9: Who is ignorant that the hand of the Lord hath made all these things? 
    10: In whose hand is the soul of every living thing, and the spirit of all flesh of man.
    11: Doth not the ear discern words, and the palate of him that eateth, the taste? 
    12: In the ancient is wisdom, and in length of days prudence. 
    13: With him is wisdom and strength, he hath counsel and understanding. 
    14: If he pull down, there is no man that can build up: if he shut up a man, there is none that can open. 
    15: If he withhold the waters, all things shall be dried up: and if he send them out, they shall overturn the earth.
    16: With him is strength and wisdom: he knoweth both the deceiver, and him that is deceived. 
    17: He bringeth counsellors to a foolish end, and judges to insensibility. 
    18: He looseth the belt of kings, and girdeth their loins with a cord. 
    19: He leadeth away priests without glory, and overthroweth nobles. 
    20: He changeth the speech of the true speakers, and taketh away the doctrine of the aged.
    21: He poureth contempt upon princes, and relieveth them that were oppressed. 
    22: He discovereth deep things out of darkness, and bringeth up to light the shadow of death. 
    23: He multiplieth nations, and destroyeth them, and restoreth them again after they were overthrown. 
    24: He changeth the heart of the princes of the people of the earth, and deceiveth them that they walk in vain where there is no way. 
    25: They shall grope as in the dark, and not in the light, and he shall make them stagger like men that are drunk.

End of day 135.