Day 212:

Reading Sirach, chapters ['49', '50', '51']:

  Chapter 49.

    1: The memory of Josias is like the composition of a sweet smell made by the art of a perfumer: 
    2: His remembrance shall be sweet as honey in every mouth, and as music at a banquet of wine. 
    3: He was directed by God unto the repentance of the nation, and he took away the abominations of wickedness. 
    4: And he directed his heart towards the Lord, and in the days of sinners he strengthened godliness. 
    5: Except David, and Ezechias, and Josias, all committed sin.
    6: For the kings of Juda forsook the law of the most High, and despised the fear of God. 
    7: So they gave their kingdom to others, and their glory to a strange nation. 
    8: They burnt the chosen city of holiness, and made the streets thereof desolate according to the prediction of Jeremias. 
    9: For they treated him evil, who was consecrated a prophet from his mother's womb, to overthrow, and pluck up, and destroy, and to build again, and renew. 
    10: It was Ezechiel that saw the glorious vision, which was shewn him upon the chariot of cherubims.
    11: For he made mention of the enemies under the figure of rain, and of doing good to them that shewed right ways. 
    12: And may the bones of the twelve prophets spring up out of their place: for they strengthened Jacob, and redeemed themselves by strong faith. 
    13: How shall we magnify Zorobabel? for he was as a signet on the right hand; 
    14: In like manner Jesus the son of Josedec? who in their days built the house, and set up a holy temple to the Lord, prepared for everlasting glory. 
    15: And let Nehemias be a long time remembered, who raised up for us our walls that were cast down, and set up the gates and the bars, who rebuilt our houses.
    16: No man was born upon earth like Henoch: for he also was taken up from the earth. 
    17: Nor as Joseph, who was a man born prince of his brethren, the support of his family, the ruler of his brethren, the stay of the people: 
    18: And his bones were visited, and after death they prophesied. 
    19: Seth and Sem obtained glory among men: and above every soul Adam in the beginning.

  Chapter 50.

    1: Simon the high priest, the son of Onias, who in his life propped up the house, and in his days fortified the temple. 
    2: By him also the height of the temple was founded, the double building and the high walls of the temple. 
    3: In his days the wells of water flowed out, and they were filled as the sea above measure. 
    4: He took care of his nation, and delivered it from destruction. 
    5: He prevailed to enlarge the city, and obtained glory in his conversation with the people: and enlarged the entrance of the house and the court.
    6: He shone in his days as the morning star in the midst of a cloud, and as the moon at the full. 
    7: And as the sun when it shineth, so did he shine in the temple of God. 
    8: And as the rainbow giving light in the bright clouds, and as the flower of roses in the days of the spring, and as the lilies that are on the brink of the water, and as the sweet smelling frankincense in the time of summer. 
    9: As a bright fire, and frankincense burning in the fire. 
    10: As a massy vessel of gold, adorned with every precious stone.
    11: As an olive tree budding forth, and a cypress tree rearing itself on high, when he put on the robe of glory, and was clothed with the perfection of power. 
    12: When he went up to the holy altar, he honoured the vesture of holiness. 
    13: And when he took the portions out of the hands of the priests, he himself stood by the altar. And about him was the ring of his brethren: and as the cedar planted in mount Libanus, 
    14: And as branches of palm trees, they stood round about him, and all the sons of Aaron in their glory. 
    15: And the oblation of the Lord was in their hands, before all the congregation of Israel: and finishing his service, on the altar, to honour the offering of the most high Ring,
    16: He stretched forth his hand to make a libation, and offered of the blood of the grape. 
    17: He poured out at the foot of the altar a divine odour to the most high Prince. 
    18: Then the sons of Aaron shouted, they sounded with beaten trumpets, and made a great noise to be heard for a remembrance before God. 
    19: Then all the people together made haste, and fell down to the earth upon their faces, to adore the Lord their God, and to pray to the Almighty God the most High. 
    20: And the singers lifted up their voices. and in the great house the sound of sweet melody was increased.
    21: And the people in prayer besought the Lord the most High, until the worship of the Lord was perfected, and they had finished their office. 
    22: Then coming down, he lifted up his hands over all the congregation of the children of Israel, to give glory to God with his lips, and to glory in his name: 
    23: And he repeated his prayer, willing to shew the power of God. 
    24: And now pray ye to the God of all, who hath done great things in all the earth, who hath increased our days from our mother's womb, and hath done with us according to his mercy. 
    25: May he grant us joyfulness of heart, and that there be peace in our days in Israel for ever:
    26: That Israel may believe that the mercy of God is with us, to deliver us in his days. 
    27: There are two nations which my soul abhorreth: and the third is no nation, which I hate: 
    28: They that sit on mount Seir, and the Philistines, and the foolish people that dwell in Sichem. 
    29: Jesus the son of Sirach, of Jerusalem, hath written in this book the doctrine of wisdom and instruction, who renewed wisdom from his heart. 
    30: Blessed is he that is conversant in these good things: and he that layeth them up in his heart, shall be wise always.
    31: For if he do them, he shall be strong to do all things: because the light of God guideth his steps.

  Chapter 51.

    1: A prayer of Jesus the son of Sirach. I will give glory to thee, O Lord, O King, and I will praise thee, O God my Saviour. 
    2: I will give glory to thy name: for thou hast been a helper and protector to me. 
    3: And hast preserved my body from destruction, from the snare of an unjust tongue, and from the lips of them that forge lies, and in the sight of them that stood by, thou hast been my helper. 
    4: And thou hast delivered me, according to the multitude of the mercy of thy name, from them that did roar, prepared to devour. 
    5: Out of the hands of them that sought my life, and from the gates of afflictions, which compassed me about:
    6: From the oppression of the flame which surrounded me, and in the midst of the fire I was not burnt. 
    7: From the depth of the belly of hell, and from an unclean tongue, and from lying words, from an unjust king, and from a slanderous tongue: 
    8: My soul shall praise the Lord even to death. 
    9: And my life was drawing near to hell beneath. 
    10: They compassed me on every side, and there was no one that would help me. I looked for the succour of men, and there was none.
    11: I remembered thy mercy, O Lord, and thy works, which are from the beginning of the world. 
    12: How thou deliverest them that wait for thee, O Lord, and savest them out of the hands of the nations. 
    13: Thou hast exalted my dwelling place upon the earth and I have prayed for death to pass away. 
    14: I called upon the Lord, the father of my Lord, that he would not leave me in the day of my trouble, and in the time of the proud without help. 
    15: I will praise thy name continually, and will praise it with thanksgiving, and my prayer was heard.
    16: And thou hast saved me from destruction, and hast delivered me from the evil time. 
    17: Therefore I will give thanks, and praise thee, and bless the name of the Lord. 
    18: When I was yet young, before I wandered about, I sought for wisdom openly in my prayer. 
    19: I prayed for her before the temple, and unto the very end I will seek after her, and she flourished as a grape soon ripe. 
    20: My heart delighted in her, my foot walked in the right way, from my youth up I sought after her.
    21: I bowed down my ear a little, and received her. 
    22: I found much wisdom in myself, and I profited much therein. 
    23: To him that giveth me wisdom, will I give glory. 
    24: For I have determined to follow her: I have had a zeal for good, and shall not be confounded. 
    25: My soul hath wrestled for her, and in doing it I have been confirmed.
    26: I stretched forth my hands on high, and I bewailed my ignorance of her. 
    27: I directed my soul to her, and in knowledge I found her. 
    28: I possessed my heart with her from the beginning: therefore I shall not be forsaken. 
    29: My entrails were troubled in seeking her: therefore shall I possess a good possession. 
    30: The Lord hath given me a tongue for my reward: and with it I will praise him.
    31: Draw near to me, ye unlearned, and gather yourselves together into the house of discipline. 
    32: Why are ye slow? and what do you say of these things? your souls are exceeding thirsty. 
    33: I have opened my mouth, and have spoken: buy her for yourselves without silver, 
    34: And submit your neck to the yoke, and let your soul receive discipline: for she is near at hand to be found. 
    35: Behold with your eyes how I have laboured a little, and have found much rest to myself.
    36: Receive ye discipline as a great sum of money, and possess abundance of gold by her. 
    37: Let your soul rejoice in his mercy, and you shall not be confounded in his praise. 
    38: Work your work before the time, and he will give you your reward in his time.

End of day 212.