Day 95:

Reading 1-Chronicles, chapters ['25', '26', '27', '28']:

  Chapter 25.

    1: Moreover David and the chief. officers of the army separated for the ministry the sons of Asaph, and of Heman, and of Idithun: to prophesy with harps, and with psalteries, and with cymbals according to their number serving in their appointed office. 
    2: Of the sons of Asaph: Zacchur, and Joseph, and Nathania, and Asarela, sons of Asaph: under the hand of Asaph prophesying near the king. 
    3: And of Idithun: the sons of Idithun, Godolias, Serf, Jeseias, and Hasabias, and Mathathias, six, under the hand of their father Idithun, who prophesied with a harp to give thanks and to praise the Lord. 
    4: Of Heman also: the sons of Heman, Bocciau, Mathaniau, Oziel, Subuel, and Jerimoth, Hananias, Hanani, Eliatha, Geddelthi, and Romemthiezer, and Jesbacassa, Mellothi, Othir, Mahazioth: 
    5: All these were the sons of Heman the seer of the king in the words of God, to lift up the horn: and God gave to Heman fourteen sons and three daughters.
    6: All these under their father's hand were distributed to sing in the temple of the Lord, with cymbals, and psalteries and harps, for the service of the house of the Lord near the king: to wit, Asaph, and Idithun, and Heman. 
    7: And the number of them with their brethren, that taught the song of the Lord, all the teachers, were two hundred and eighty-eight, 
    8: And they cast lots by their courses, the elder equally with the younger, the learned and the unlearned together. 
    9: And the first lot came forth to Joseph, who was of Asaph. The second to Godolias, to him and his sons, and his brethren twelve. 
    10: The third to Zachur, to his sons and his brethren twelve.
    11: The fourth to Isari, to his sons and his brethren twelve. 
    12: The fifth to Nathania, to his sons and his brethren twelve. 
    13: The sixth to Bocciau, to his sons and his brethren twelve. 
    14: The seventh to Isreela, to his sons and his brethren twelve. 
    15: The eighth to Jesaia, to his sons and his brethren twelve.
    16: The ninth to Mathanaias, to his sons and his brethren twelve. 
    17: The tenth to Semeias, to his sons and his brethren twelve. 
    18: The eleventh to Azareel, to his sons and his brethren twelve. 
    19: The twelfth to Hasabia, to his sons and his brethren twelve. 
    20: The thirteenth to Subael, to his sons and his brethren twelve.
    21: The fourteenth to Mathathias, to his sons and his brethren twelve. 
    22: The fifteenth to Jerimoth, to his sons and his brethren twelve. 
    23: The sixteenth to Hananias, to his sons and his brethren twelve. 
    24: The seventeenth to Jesbacassa, to his sons and his brethren twelve. 
    25: The eighteenth to Hanani, to his sons and his brethren twelve.
    26: The nineteenth to Mellothi, to his sons and his brethren twelve. 
    27: The twentieth to Eliatha, to his sons and his brethren twelve. 
    28: The one and twentieth to Othir, to his sons and his brethren twelve. 
    29: The two and twentieth to Geddelthi, to his sons and his brethren twelve. 
    30: The three and twentieth to Mahazioth, to his sons and his brethren twelve.
    31: The four and twentieth to Romemthiezer, to his sons and his brethren twelve.

  Chapter 26.

    1: And the divisions of the porters: of the Corites Meselemia, the son of Core, of the sons of Asaph. 
    2: The sons of Meselemia: Zacharias the firstborn, Jadihel the second, Zabadias the third, Jathanael the fourth, 
    3: Elam the fifth, Johanan the sixth, Elioenai the seventh. 
    4: And the sons of Obededom, Semeias the firstborn, Jozabad the second, Joaha the third, Sachar the fourth, Nathanael the fifth, 
    5: Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, Phollathi the eighth: for the Lord had blessed him.
    6: And to Semei his son were born sons, herds of their families: for they were men of great valour. 
    7: The sons then of Semeias were Othni, and Raphael, and Obed, Elizabad, and his brethren most valiant men: and Eliu, and Samachias. 
    8: All these of the sons of Obededom: they, and their sons, and their brethren most able men for service, sixty-two of Obededom. 
    9: And the sons of Meselemia, and their brethren strong men, were eighteen. 
    10: And of Hosa, that is, of the sons of Merari: Semri the chief, (for he had not a firstborn, and therefore his father made him chief.)
    11: Helcias the second, Tabelias the third, Zacharias the fourth: all these the sons, and the brethren of Hosa, were thirteen. 
    12: Among these were the divisions of the porters, so that the chiefs of the wards, as well as their brethren, always ministered in the house of the Lord. 
    13: And they cast lots equally, both little and great, by their families for every one of the gates. 
    14: And the lot of the east fell to Selemias. But to his son Zacharias, a very wise and learned man, the north gate fell by lot. 
    15: And to Obededom and his sons that towards the south: in which part of the house was the council of the ancients.
    16: To Sephim, and Hosa towards the west, by the gate which leadeth to the way of the ascent: ward against ward. 
    17: Now towards the east were six Levites: and towards the north four a day: and towards the south likewise four a day: and where the council was, two and two. 
    18: In the cells also of the porters toward the west four in the way: and two at every cell. 
    19: These are the divisions of the porters of the sons of Core, and of Merari. 
    20: Now Achias was over the treasures of the house of God, and the holy vessels.
    21: The sons of Ledan, the sons of Gersonni: of Ledan were heads of the families, of Ledan, and Gersonni, Jehieli. 
    22: The sons of Jehieli: Zathan and Joel, his brethren over the treasures of the house of the Lord, 
    23: With the Amramites, and Isaarites, and Hebronites, and Ozielites. 
    24: And Subael the son of Gersom, the son of Moses, was chief over the treasures. 
    25: His brethren also, Eliezer, whose son Rohobia, and his son Isaias, and his son Joram, and his son Zechri, and his son Selemith.
    26: Which Selemith and his brethren were over the treasures of the holy things, which king David, and the heads of families, and the captains over thousands and over hundreds, and the captains of the host had dedicated, 
    27: Out of the wars, and the spoils won in battles, which they had consecrated to the building and furniture of the temple of the Lord. 
    28: And all these things that Samuel the seer and Saul the son of Cis, and Abner the son of Ner, and Joab the son of Sarvia had sanctified: and whosoever had sanctified those things, they were under the hand of Selemith and his brethren. 
    29: But Chonenias and his sons were over the Isaarites, for the business abroad over Israel to teach them and judge them. 
    30: And of the Hebronites Hasabias, and his brethren most able men, a thousand seven hundred had the charge over Israel beyond the Jordan westward, in all the works of the Lord, and for the service of the king.
    31: And the chief of the Hebronites was Jeria according to their families and kindreds. In the fortieth year of the reign of David they were numbered, and there were found most valiant men in Jazer Galaad, 
    32: And his brethren of stronger age, two thousand seven hundred chiefs of families. And king David made them rulers over the Rubenites and the Gadites, and the half tribe of Manasses, for all the service of God, and the king.

  Chapter 27.

    1: Now the children of Israel according to their number, the heads of families, captains of thousands and of hundreds, and officers, that served the king according to their companies, who came in and went out every month in the year, under every chief were four and twenty thousand. 
    2: Over the first company the first month Jesboam, the son of Zabdiel was chief, and under him were four and twenty thousand. 
    3: Of the sons of Phares, the chief of all the captains in the host in the first month. 
    4: The company of the second month was under Dudia, an Ahohite, and after him was another named Macelloth, who commanded a part of the army of four and twenty thousand. 
    5: And the captain of the third company for the third month, was Banaias the son of Joiada the priest: and in his division were four and twenty thousand.
    6: This is that Banaias the most valiant among the thirty, and above the thirty. And Amizabad his son commanded his company. 
    7: The fourth, for the fourth month, was Asahel the brother of Joab, and Zabadias his son after him: and in his company were four and twenty thousand. 
    8: The fifth captain for the fifth month, was Samaoth a Jezerite: and his company were four and twenty thousand. 
    9: The sixth, for the sixth month, was Hira the son of Acces a Thecuite: and in his company were four and twenty thousand. 
    10: The seventh, for the seventh month, was Helles a Phallonite of the sons of Ephraim: and in his company were four and twenty thousand.
    11: The eighth, for the eighth month, was Sobochai a Husathite of the race of Zarahi: and in his company were four and twenty thousand. 
    12: The ninth, for the ninth month, was Abiezer an Anathothite of the sons of Jemini, and in His company were four and twenty thousand. 
    13: The tenth, for the tenth month, was Marai, who was a Netophathite of the race of Zarai: and in his company were four and twenty thousand. 
    14: The eleventh, for the eleventh month, was Banaias, a Pharathonite of the sons of Ephraim: and in his company were four and twenty thousand. 
    15: The twelfth, for the twelfth month, was Holdai a Netophathite, of the race of Gothoniel: and in his company were four and twenty thousand.
    16: Now the chiefs over the tribes of Israel were these: over the Rubenites, Eliezer the son of Zechri was ruler: over the Simeonites, Saphatias the son of Maacha: 
    17: Over the Levites, Hasabias the son of Camuel: over the Aaronites, Sadoc: 
    18: Over Juda, Eliu the brother of David: over Issachar, Amri the son of Michael: 
    19: Over the Zabulonites, Jesmaias the son of Adias: over the Nephtalites, Jerimoth the son of Ozriel: 
    20: Over the sons of Ephraim, Osee the: son of Ozaziu: over the half tribe of Manasses, Joel the son of Phadaia:
    21: And over the half tribe of Manasses: in Galaad, Jaddo the son of Zacharias: and over Benjamin, Jasiel the son of Abner. 
    22: And over Dan, Ezrihel the son of Jeroham: these were the princes of the children of Israel. 
    23: But David would not number them from twenty years old and under: because the Lord had said that he would multiply Israel like the stars of heaven. 
    24: Joab the son of Sarvia began to number, but he finished not: because upon this there fell wrath upon Israel: and therefore the number of them that were numbered, was not registered in the chronicles of king David. 
    25: And over the king's treasures was Azmoth the son of Adiel: and over those stores which were in the cities, and is the villages, and in the castles, was Jonathan the son of Ozias.
    26: And over the tillage, and the husbandmen, who tilled the ground, was Ezri the son of Chelub: 
    27: And over the dressers of the vineyards, was Semeias a Romathite: and over the wine cellars, Zabdias an Aphonite. 
    28: And over the oliveyards and the fig groves, which were in the plains, was Balanam a Gederite: and over the oil cellars, Joas. 
    29: And over the herds that fed in Saron, was Setrai a Saronite: and over the. oxen in the valleys, Saphat the son of Adli: 
    30: And over the camels, Ubil an Ishmahelite: and over the asses, Jadias a Meronathite:
    31: And over the sheep Jazia an Agarene. All these were the rulers of the substance of king David. 
    32: And Jonathan David's uncle, a counsellor, a wise and learned man: he and Jahiel the son of Hachamoni were with the king's sons. 
    33: And Achitophel was the king's counsellor, and Chusai the Arachite, the king's friend. 
    34: And after Achitophel was Joiada the son of Banaias, and Abiathar. And the general of the king's army was Joab.

  Chapter 28.

    1: And David assembled all the chief men of Israel, the princes of the tribes, and the captains of the companies, who waited on the king: and the captains over thousands, and over hundreds, and them who had the charge over the substance and possessions of the king, and his sons with the officers of the court, and the men of power, and all the bravest of the army at Jerusalem. 
    2: And the king rising up, and standing said: Hear me, my brethren and my people: I had a thought to have built a house, in which the ark of the Lord, and the footstool of our God might rest: and I prepared all things for the building. 
    3: And God said to me: Thou shalt not build a house to my name: because thou art a man of war, and hast shed blood. 
    4: But the Lord God of Israel chose me of all the house of my father, to be king over Israel for ever: for of Juda he chose the princes: and of the house of Juda, my father's house: and among the sons of my father, it pleased him to choose me king over all Israel. 
    5: And among my sons (for the Lord hath given me many sons) he hath chosen Solomon my son, to sit upon the throne of the kingdom of the Lord over Israel.
    6: And he said to me: Solomon thy son shall build my house, and my courts: for I have chosen him to be my son, and I will be a father to him. 
    7: And I will establish his kingdom for ever, if he continue to keep my commandments, and my judgments, as at this day. 
    8: Now then before all the assembly of Israel, in the hearing of our God, keep ye, and seek all the commandments of the Lord our God: that you may possess the good land, and may leave it to your children after you for ever. 
    9: And thou my son Solomon, know the God of thy father, and serve him with a perfect heart, and a willing mind: for the Lord searcheth all hearts, and understandeth all the thoughts of minds. If thou seek him, thou shalt find him: but if thou forsake him, he will cast thee off for ever. 
    10: Now therefore seeing the Lord hath chosen thee to build the house of the sanctuary, take courage, and do it.
    11: And David gave to Solomon his son a description of the porch, and of the temple, and of the treasures, and of the upper floor, and of the inner chambers, and of the house for the mercy seat, 
    12: As also of all the courts, which he had in his thought, and of the chambers round about, for the treasures of the house of the Lord, and for the treasures of the consecrated things, 
    13: And of the divisions of the priests and of the Levites, for all the works of the house of the Lord, and for all the vessels of the service of the temple of the Lord. 
    14: Gold by weight for every vessel for the ministry. And silver by weight according to the diversity of the vessels and uses. 
    15: He gave also gold for the golden candlesticks, and their lamps, according to the dimensions of every candlestick, and the lamps thereof. In like manner also he gave silver by weight for the silver candlesticks, and for their lamps according to the diversity of the dimensions of them.
    16: He gave also gold for the tables of proposition, according to the diversity of the tables: in like manner also silver for other tables of silver. 
    17: For fleshhooks also, and bowls, and censers of fine gold, and for little lions of gold, according to the measure he gave by weight, for every lion. In like manner also for lions of silver he set aside a different weight of silver. 
    18: And for the altar of incense, he gave the purest gold: and to make the likeness of the chariot of the cherubims spreading their wings, and covering the ark of the covenant of the Lord. 
    19: All these things, said he, came to me written by the hand of the Lord that I might understand all the works of the pattern. 
    20: And David said to Solomon his son: Act like a man, and take courage, and do: fear not, and be not dismayed: for the Lord my God will be with thee, and will not leave thee, nor forsake thee, till thou hast finished all the work for the service of the house of the Lord.
    21: Behold the courses of the priests and the Levites, for every ministry of the house of the Lord, stand by thee, and are ready, and both the princes, and the people know how to execute all thy commandments.

End of day 95.