Day 260:

Reading Daniel, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: Baltasar the king made a great feast for a thousand of his nobles: and every one drank according to his age. 
    2: And being now drunk he commanded that they should bring the vessels of gold and silver which Nabuchodonosor his father had brought away out of the temple, that was in Jerusalem, that the king and his nobles, and his wives and his concubines, might drink in them. 
    3: Then were the golden and silver vessels brought, which he had brought away out of the temple that was in Jerusalem: and the king and his nobles, his wives and his concubines, drank in them. 
    4: They drank wine, and praised their gods of gold, and of silver, of brass, of iron, and of wood, and of stone. 
    5: In the same hour there appeared fingers, as it were of the hand of a man, writing over against the candlestick upon the surface of the wall of the king's palace: and the king beheld the joints of the hand that wrote.
    6: Then was the king's countenance changed, and his thoughts troubled him: and the joints of his loins were loosed, and his knees struck one against the other. 
    7: And the king cried out aloud to bring in the wise men, the Chaldeans, and the soothsayers. And the king spoke, and said to the wise men of Babylon: Whosoever shall read this writing, and shall make known to me the interpretation thereof, shall be clothed with purple, and shall have a golden chain on his neck, and shall be the third man in my kingdom. 
    8: Then came in all the king's wise men, but they could neither read the writing, nor declare the interpretation to the king. 
    9: Wherewith king Baltasar was much troubled, and his countenance was changed: and his nobles also were troubled. 
    10: Then the queen, on occasion of what had happened to the king, and his nobles, came into the banquet house: and she spoke and said: O king, live for ever: let not thy thoughts trouble thee, neither let thy countenance be changed.
    11: There is a man in thy kingdom that hath the spirit of the holy gods in him: and in the days of thy father knowledge and wisdom were found in him: for king Nabuchodonosor thy father appointed him prince of the wise men, enchanters, Chaldeans, and soothsayers, thy father, I say, O king: 
    12: Because a greater spirit, and knowledge, and understanding, and interpretation of dreams, and shewing of secrets, and resolving of difficult things, were found in him, that is, in Daniel: whom the king named Baltassar. Now therefore let Daniel be called for, and he will tell the interpretation. 
    13: Then Daniel was brought in before the king. And the king spoke, and said to him: Art thou Daniel of the children of the captivity of Juda, whom my father the king brought out of Judea? 
    14: I have heard of thee, that thou hast the spirit of the gods, and excellent knowledge, and understanding, and wisdom are found in thee. 
    15: And now the wise men the magicians have come in before me, to read this writing, and shew me the interpretation thereof: and they could not declare to me the meaning of this writing.
    16: But I have heard of thee, that thou canst interpret obscure things, and resolve difficult things: now if thou art able to read the writing, and to shew me the interpretation thereof, thou shalt be clothed with purple, and shalt have a chain of gold about thy neck, and shalt be the third prince in my kingdom. 
    17: To which Daniel made answer, and said before the king: Thy rewards be to thyself, and the gifts of thy house give to another: but the writing I will read to thee, O king, and shew thee the interpretation thereof. 
    18: O king, the most high God gave to Nabuchodonosor thy father a kingdom, and greatness, and glory, and honour. 
    19: And for the greatness that he gave to him, all people, tribes, and languages trembled, and were afraid of him: whom he would, he slew: and whom he would, he destroyed: and whom he would, he set up: and whom he would, he brought down. 
    20: But when his heart was lifted up, and his spirit hardened unto pride, he was put down from the throne of his kingdom, and his glory was taken away.
    21: And he was driven out from the sons of men, and his heart was made like the beasts, and his dwelling was with the wild asses, and he did eat grass like an ox, and his body was wet with the dew of heaven: till he knew that the most High ruled in the kingdom of men, and that he will set over it whomsoever it shall please him. 
    22: Thou also his son, O Baltasar, hast not humbled thy heart, whereas thou knewest all these things: 
    23: But hast lifted thyself up against the Lord of heaven: and the vessels of his house have been brought before thee: and thou, and thy nobles, and thy wives, and thy concubines have drunk wine in them: and thou hast praised the gods of silver, and of gold, and of brass, of iron, and of wood, and of stone, that neither see, nor hear, nor feel: but the God who hath thy breath in his hand, and all thy ways, thou hast not glorified. 
    24: Wherefore he hath sent the part of the hand which hath written this that is set down. 
    25: And this is the writing that is written: MANE, THECEL, PHARES.
    26: And this is the interpretation of the word. MANE: God hath numbered thy kingdom, and hath finished it. 
    27: THECEL: thou art weighed in the balance, and art found wanting. 
    28: PHARES: thy kingdom is divided, and is given to the Medes and Persians. 
    29: Then by the king's command Daniel was clothed with purple, and a chain of gold was put about his neck: and it was proclaimed of him that he had power as the third man in the kingdom. 
    30: The same night Baltasar the Chaldean king was slain.
    31: And Darius the Mede succeeded to the kingdom, being threescore and two years old.

  Chapter 6.

    1: It seemed good to Darius, and he appointed over the kingdom a hundred and twenty governors to be over his whole kingdom. 
    2: And three princes over them, of whom Daniel was one: that the governors might give an account to them, and the king might have no trouble. 
    3: And Daniel excelled all the princes, and governors: because a greater spirit of God was in him. 
    4: And the king thought to set him over all the kingdom: whereupon the princes, and the governors sought to find occasion against Daniel with regard to the king: and they could find no cause, nor suspicion, because he was faithful, and no fault, nor suspicion was found in him. 
    5: Then these men said: We shall not find any occasion against this Daniel, unless perhaps concerning the law of his God.
    6: Then the princes, and the governors craftily suggested to the king, and spoke thus unto him: King Darius, live for ever: 
    7: All the princes of the kingdom, the magistrates, and governors, the senators, and judges have consulted together, that an imperial decree, and an edict be published: That whosoever shall ask any petition of any god, or man, for thirty days, but of thee, O king, shall be cast into the den of lions. 
    8: Now, therefore, O king, confirm the sentence, and sign the decree: that what is decreed by the Medes and Persians may not be altered, nor any man be allowed to transgress it. 
    9: So king Darius set forth the decree, and established it. 
    10: Now when Daniel knew this, that is to say, that the law was made, he went into his house: and opening the windows in his upper chamber towards Jerusalem, he knelt down three times a day, and adored, and gave thanks before his God, as he had been accustomed to do before.
    11: Wherefore those men carefully watching him, found Daniel praying and making supplication to his God. 
    12: And they came and spoke to the king concerning the edict: O king, hast thou not decreed, that every man that should make a request to any of the gods, or men, for thirty days, but to thyself, O king, should be cast into the den of the lions? And the king answered them, saying: The word is true according to the decree of the Medes and Persians, which it is not lawful to violate. 
    13: Then they answered, and said before the king: Daniel, who is of the children of the captivity of Juda, hath not regarded thy law, nor the decree that thou hast made: but three times a day he maketh his prayer. 
    14: Now when the king had heard these words, he was very much grieved, and in behalf of Daniel he set his heart to deliver him and even till sunset he laboured to save him. 
    15: But those men perceiving the king's design, said to him: Know thou, O king, that the law of the Medes and Persians is, that no decree which the king hath made, may be altered.
    16: Then the king commanded, and they brought Daniel, and cast him into the den of the lions. And the king said to Daniel: Thy God, whom thou always servest, he will deliver thee. 
    17: And a stone was brought, and laid upon the mouth of the den: which the king sealed with his own ring, and with the ring of his nobles, that nothing should be done against Daniel. 
    18: And the king went away to his house and laid himself down without taking supper, and meat was not set before him, and even sleep departed from him. 
    19: Then the king rising very early in the morning, went in haste to the lions' den: 
    20: And coming near to the den, cried with a lamentable voice to Daniel, and said to him: Daniel, servant of the living God, hath thy God, whom thou servest always, been able, thinkest thou, to deliver thee from the lions?
    21: And Daniel answering the king, said: O king, live for ever: 
    22: My God hath sent his angel, and hath shut up the mouths of the lions, and they have not hurt me: forasmuch as before him justice hath been found in me: yea and before thee, O king, I have done no offence. 
    23: Then was the king exceeding glad for him, and he commanded that Daniel should be taken out of the den: and Daniel was taken out of the den, and no hurt was found in him, because he believed in his God. 
    24: And by the king's commandment, those men were brought that had accused Daniel: and they were cast into the lions' den, they and their children, and their wives: and they did not reach the bottom of the den, before the lions caught them, and broke all their bones in pieces. 
    25: Then king Darius wrote to all people, tribes, and languages, dwelling in the whole earth: PEACE be multiplied unto you.
    26: It is decreed by me, that in all my empire and my kingdom all men dread and fear the God of Daniel. For he is the living and eternal God for ever: and his kingdom shall not be destroyed, and his power shall be for ever. 
    27: He is the deliverer, and saviour, doing signs and wonders in heaven, and in earth: who hath delivered Daniel out of the lions' den. 
    28: Now Daniel continued unto the reign of Darius, and the reign of Cyrus the Persian.

  Chapter 7.

    1: In the first year of Baltasar king of Babylon, Daniel saw a dream: and the vision of his head was upon his bed: and writing the dream, he comprehended it in few words: and relating the sum of it in short, he said: 
    2: I saw in my vision by night, and behold the four winds of the heaven strove upon the great sea. 
    3: And four great beasts, different one from another, came up out of the sea. 
    4: The first was like a lioness, and had the wings of an eagle: I beheld till her wings were plucked off, and she was lifted up from the earth, and stood upon her feet as a man, and the heart of a man was given to her. 
    5: And behold another beast like a bear stood up on one side: and there were three rows in the mouth thereof, and in the teeth thereof, and thus they said to it: Arise, devour much flesh.
    6: After this I beheld, and lo, another like a leopard, and it had upon it four wings as of a fowl, and the beast had four heads, and power was given to it. 
    7: After this I beheld in the vision of the night, and lo, a fourth beast, terrible and wonderful, and exceeding strong, it had great iron teeth, eating and breaking in pieces, and treading down the rest with its feet: and it was unlike to the other beasts which I had seen before it, and had ten horns. 
    8: I considered the horns, and behold another little horn sprung out of the midst of them: and three of the first horns were plucked up at the presence thereof: and behold eyes like the eyes of a man were in this horn, and a mouth speaking great things. 
    9: I beheld till thrones were placed, and the Ancient of days sat: his garment was white as snow, and the hair of his head like clean wool: his throne like flames of fire: the wheels of it like a burning fire. 
    10: A swift stream of fire issued forth from before him: thousands of thousands ministered to him, and ten thousand times a hundred thousand stood before him: the judgment sat, and the books were opened.
    11: I beheld because of the voice of the great words which that horn spoke: and I saw that the beast was slain, and the body thereof was destroyed, and given to the fire to be burnt: 
    12: And that the power of the other beasts was taken away: and that times of life were appointed them for a time, and a time. 
    13: I beheld therefore in the vision of the night, and lo, one like the son of man came with the clouds of heaven, and he came even to the Ancient of days: and they presented him before him. 
    14: And he gave him power, and glory, and a kingdom: and all peoples, tribes and tongues shall serve him: his power is an everlasting power that shall not be taken away: and his kingdom that shall not be destroyed. 
    15: My spirit trembled, I Daniel was affrighted at these things, and the visions of my head troubled me.
    16: I went near to one of them that stood by, and asked the truth of him concerning all these things, and he told me the interpretation of the words, and instructed me: 
    17: These four great beasts are four kingdoms, which shall arise out of the earth. 
    18: But the saints of the most high God shall take the kingdom: and they shall possess the kingdom for ever and ever. 
    19: After this I would diligently learn concerning the fourth beast, which was very different from all, and exceeding terrible: his teeth and claws were of iron: he devoured and broke in pieces, and the rest he stamped upon with his feet: 
    20: And concerning the ten horns that he had on his head: and concerning the other that came up, before which three horns fell: and of that horn that had eyes, and a mouth speaking great things, and was greater than the rest.
    21: I beheld, and lo, that horn made war against the saints, and prevailed over them, 
    22: Till the Ancient of days came and gave judgment to the saints of the most High, and the time came, and the saints obtained the kingdom. 
    23: And thus he said: The fourth beast shall be the fourth kingdom upon earth, which shall be greater than all the kingdoms, and shall devour the whole earth, and shall tread it down, and break it in pieces. 
    24: And the ten horns of the same kingdom, shall be ten kings: and another shall rise up after them, and he shall be mightier than the former, and he shall bring down three kings. 
    25: And he shall speak words against the High One, and shall crush the saints of the most High: and he shall think himself able to change times and laws, and they shall be delivered into his hand until a time, and times, and half a time.
    26: And judgment shall sit, that his power may be taken away, and be broken in pieces, and perish even to the end. 
    27: And that the kingdom, and power, and the greatness of the kingdom, under the whole heaven, may be given to the people of the saints of the most High: whose kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and all kings shall serve him, and shall obey him. 
    28: Hitherto is the end of the word. I Daniel was much troubled with my thoughts, and my countenance was changed in me: but I kept the word in my heart.

  Chapter 8.

    1: In the third year of the reign of king Baltasar, a vision appeared to me. I Daniel, after what I had seen in the beginning, 
    2: Saw in my vision when I was in the castle of Susa, which is in the province of Elam: and I saw in the vision that I was over the gate of Ulai. 
    3: And I lifted up my eyes, and saw: and behold a ram stood before the water, having two high horns, and one higher than the other, and growing up. 
    4: Afterward I saw the ram pushing with his horns against the west, and against the north, and against the south: and no beasts could withstand him, nor be delivered out of his hand: and he did according to his own will, and became great. 
    5: And I understood: and behold a he goat came from the west on the face of the whole earth, and he touched not the ground, and the he goat had a notable horn between his eyes.
    6: And he went up to the ram that had the horns, which I had seen standing before the gate, and he ran towards him in the force of his strength. 
    7: And when he was come near the ram, he was enraged against him, and struck the ram: and broke his two horns, and the ram could not withstand him: and when he had cast him down on the ground, he stamped upon him, and none could deliver the ram out of his hand. 
    8: And the he goat became exceeding great: and when he was grown, the great horn was broken, and there came up four horns under it towards the four winds of heaven. 
    9: And out of one of them came forth a little horn: and it became great against the south, and against the east, and against the strength. 
    10: And it was magnified even unto the strength of heaven: and it threw down of the strength, and of the stars, and trod upon them.
    11: And it was magnified even to the prince of the strength: and it took away from him the continual sacrifice, and cast down the place of his sanctuary. 
    12: And strength was given him against the continual sacrifice, because of sins: and truth shall be cast down on the ground, and he shall do and shall prosper. 
    13: And I heard one of the saints speaking, and one saint said to another, I know not to whom that was speaking: How long shall be the vision, concerning the continual sacrifice, and the sin of the desolation that is made: and the sanctuary, and the strength be trodden under foot? 
    14: And he said to him: Unto evening and morning two thousand three hundred days: and the sanctuary shall be cleansed. 
    15: And it came to pass when I Daniel saw the vision, and sought the meaning, that behold there stood before me as it were the appearance of a man.
    16: And I heard the voice of a man between Ulai: and he called, and said: Gabriel, make this man to understand the vision. 
    17: And he came and stood near where I stood: and when he was come, I fell on my face trembling, and he said to me: Understand, O son of man, for in the time of the end the vision shall be fulfilled. 
    18: And when he spoke to me I fell flat on the ground: and he touched me, and set me upright, 
    19: And he said to me: I will shew thee what things are to come to pass in the end of the malediction: for the time hath its end. 
    20: The ram, which thou sawest with horns, is the king of the Medes and Persians.
    21: And the he goat, is the king of the Greeks, and the great horn that was between his eyes, the same is the first king. 
    22: But whereas when that was broken, there arose up four for it: four kings shall rise up of his nation, but not with his strength. 
    23: And after their reign, when iniquities shall be grown up, there shall arise a king of a shameless face, and understanding dark sentences. 
    24: And his power shall be strengthened, but not by his own force: and he shall lay all things waste, and shall prosper, and do more than can be believed. And he shall destroy the mighty, and the people of the saints, 
    25: According to his will, and craft shall be successful in his hand: and his heart shall be puffed up, and in the abundance of all things he shall kill many: and he shall rise up against the prince of princes, and shall be broken without hand.
    26: And the vision of the evening and the morning, which was told, is true: thou therefore seal up the vision, because it shall come to pass after many days. 
    27: And I Daniel languished, and was sick for some days: and when I was risen up, I did the king's business, and I was astonished at the vision, and there was none that could interpret it.

End of day 260.