Day 139:

Reading Job, chapters ['25', '26', '27', '28']:

  Chapter 25.

    1: Then Baldad the Suhite answered, and I said: 
    2: Power and terror are with him, who maketh peace in his high places. 
    3: Is there any numbering of his soldiers? and upon whom shall not his light arise? 
    4: Can man be justified compared with God, or he that is born of a woman appear clean? 
    5: Behold even the moon doth not shine, and the stars are not pure in his sight.
    6: How much less man that is rottenness and the son of man who is a worm?

  Chapter 26.

    1: Then Job answered, and said: 
    2: Whose helper art thou? is it of him that is weak? and dost thou hold up the arm of him that has no strength? 
    3: To whom hast thou given counsel? perhaps to him that hath no wisdom, and thou hast shewn thy very great prudence. 
    4: Whom hast thou desired to teach? was it not him that made life? 
    5: Behold the giants groan under the waters, and they that dwell with them.
    6: Hell is naked before him, and there is no covering for destruction. 
    7: He stretched out the north over the empty space, and hangeth the earth upon nothing. 
    8: He bindeth up the waters in his clouds, so that they break not out and fall down together. 
    9: He withholdeth the face of his throne, and spreadeth his cloud over it. 
    10: He hath set bounds about the waters, till light and darkness come to an end.
    11: The pillars of heaven tremble, and dread at his beck. 
    12: By his power the seas are suddenly gathered together, and his wisdom has struck the proud one. 
    13: His spirit hath adorned the heavens, and his obstetric hand brought forth the winding serpent. 
    14: Lo, these things are said in part of his ways: and seeing we have heard scarce a little drop of his word, who shall be able to behold the thunder of his greatness?

  Chapter 27.

    1: Job also added, taking up his parable, and said: 
    2: As God liveth, who hath taken away my judgment, and the Almighty, who hath brought my soul to bitterness, 
    3: As long as breath remaineth in me, and the spirit of God in my nostrils, 
    4: My lips shall not speak iniquity, neither shall my tongue contrive lying. 
    5: God forbid that I should judge you to be just: till I die I will not depart from my innocence.
    6: My justification, which I have begun to hold, I will not forsake: for my heart doth not reprehend me in all my life. 
    7: Let my enemy be as the ungodly, and my adversary as the wicked one. 
    8: For what is the hope of the hypocrite if through covetousness he take by violence, and God deliver not his soul? 
    9: Will God hear his cry, when distress shall come upon him? 
    10: Or can he delight himself in the Almighty, and call upon God at all times?
    11: I will teach you by the hand of God, what the Almighty hath, and I will not conceal it. 
    12: Behold you all know it, and why do you speak vain things without cause? 
    13: This is the portion of a wicked man with God, and the inheritance of the violent, which they shall receive of the Almighty. 
    14: If his sons be multiplied, they shall be for the sword, and his grandsons shall not be filled with bread. 
    15: They that shall remain of him, shall be buried in death, and his widows shall not weep.
    16: If he shall heap together silver as earth, and prepare raiment as clay, 
    17: He shall prepare indeed, but the just man shall be clothed with it: and the innocent shall divide the silver. 
    18: He hath built his house as a moth, and as a keeper he hath made a booth. 
    19: The rich man when he shall sleep shall take away nothing with him: he shall open his eyes and find nothing. 
    20: Poverty like water shall take hold on him, a tempest shall oppress him in the night.
    21: A burning wind shall take him up, and carry him away, and as a whirlwind shall snatch him from his place. 
    22: And he shall cast upon him, and shall not spare: out of his hand he would willingly flee. 
    23: He shall clasp his hands upon him, and shall hiss at him, beholding his place.

  Chapter 28.

    1: Silver hath beginnings of its veins, and gold hath a place wherein it is melted. 
    2: Iron is taken out of the earth, and stone melted with heat is turned into brass. 
    3: He hath set a time for darkness, and the end of all things he considereth, the stone also that is in the dark and the shadow of death. 
    4: The flood divideth from the people that are on their journey, those whom the food of the needy man hath forgotten, and who cannot be come at. 
    5: The land, out of which bread grew in its place, hath been overturned with fire.
    6: The stones of it are the place of sapphires, and the clods of it are gold. 
    7: The bird hath not known the path, neither hath the eye of the vulture beheld it. 
    8: The children of the merchants have not trodden it, neither hath the lioness passed by it. 
    9: He hath stretched forth his hand to the flint, he hath overturned mountains from the roots. 
    10: In the rocks he hath cut out rivers, and his eye hath seen every precious thing.
    11: The depths also of rivers he hath searched, and hidden things he hath brought forth to light. 
    12: But where is wisdom to be found, and where is the place of understanding? 
    13: Man knoweth not the price thereof, neither is it found in the land of them that live in delights. 
    14: The depth saith: It is not in me: and the sea saith: It is not with me. 
    15: The finest gold shall not purchase it, neither shall silver be weighed in exchange for it.
    16: It shall not be compared with the dyed colours of India, or with the most precious stone sardonyx, or the sapphire. 
    17: Gold or crystal cannot equal it, neither shall any vessels of gold be changed for it. 
    18: High and eminent things shall not be mentioned in comparison of it: but wisdom is drawn out of secret places. 
    19: The topaz of Ethiopia shall not be equal to it, neither shall it be compared to the cleanest dyeing. 
    20: Whence then cometh wisdom? and where is the place of understanding?
    21: It is hid from the eyes of all living. and the fowls of the air know it not. 
    22: Destruction and death have said: With our ears we have heard the fame thereof. 
    23: God understandeth the way of it, and he knoweth the place thereof. 
    24: For he beholdeth the ends of the world: and looketh on all things that are under heaven. 
    25: Who made a weight for the winds and weighed the waters by measure.
    26: When he gave a law for the rain, and a way for the sounding storms. 
    27: Then he saw it, and declared, and prepared, and searched it. 
    28: And he said to man: Behold the fear of the Lord, that is wisdom: and to depart from evil, is understanding.

End of day 139.