Day 194:

Reading Song-of-Songs, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: Let my beloved come into his garden, and eat the fruit of his apple trees. I am come into my garden, O my sister, my spouse, I have gathered my myrrh, with my aromatical spices: I have eaten the honeycomb with my honey, I have drunk my wine with my milk: eat, O friends, and drink, and be inebriated, my dearly beloved. 
    2: I sleep, and my heart watcheth; the voice of my beloved knocking: Open to me, my sister, my love, my dove, my undefiled: for my head is full of dew, and my locks of the drops of the nights. 
    3: I have put off my garment, how shall I put it on? I have washed my feet, how shall I defile them? 
    4: My beloved put his hand through the key hole, and my bowels were moved at his touch. 
    5: I arose up to open to my beloved: my hands dropped with myrrh, and my fingers were full of the choicest myrrh.
    6: I opened the bolt of my door to my beloved: but he had turned aside, and was gone. My soul melted when he spoke: I sought him, and found him not: I called, and he did not answer me. 
    7: The keepers that go about the city found me: they struck me: and wounded me: the keepers of the walls took away my veil from me. 
    8: I adjure you, O daughters of Jerusalem, if you find my beloved, that you tell him that I languish with love. 
    9: What manner of one is thy beloved of the beloved, O thou most beautiful among women? what manner of one is thy beloved of the beloved, that thou hast so adjured us? 
    10: My beloved is white and ruddy, chosen out of thousands.
    11: His head is as the finest gold: his locks as branches of palm trees, black as a raven. 
    12: His eyes as doves upon brooks of waters, which are washed with milk, and sit beside the plentiful streams. 
    13: His cheeks are as beds of aromatical spices set by the perfumers. His lips are as lilies dropping choice myrrh. 
    14: His hands are turned and as of gold, full of hyacinths. His belly as of ivory, set with sapphires. 
    15: His legs as pillars of marble, that are set upon bases of gold. His form as of Libanus, excellent as the cedars.
    16: His throat most sweet, and he is all lovely: such is my beloved, and he is my friend, O ye daughters of Jerusalem. 
    17: Whither is thy beloved gone, O thou most beautiful among women? whither is thy beloved turned aside, and we will seek him with thee?

  Chapter 6.

    1: My beloved is gone down into his garden, to the bed of aromatical spices, to feed in the gardens, and to gather lilies. 
    2: I to my beloved, and my beloved to me, who feedeth among the lilies. 
    3: Thou art beautiful, O my love, sweet and comely as Jerusalem: terrible as an army set in array. 
    4: Turn away thy eyes from me, for they have made me flee away. Thy hair is as a flock of goats, that appear from Galaad. 
    5: Thy teeth as a flock of sheep, which come up from the washing, all with twins, and there is none barren among them.
    6: Thy cheeks are as the bark of a pomegranate, beside what is hidden within thee. 
    7: There are threescore queens, and fourscore concubines, and young maidens without number. 
    8: One is my dove, my perfect one is but one, she is the only one of her mother, the chosen of her that bore her. The daughters saw her, and declared her most blessed: the queens and concubines, and they praised her. 
    9: Who is she that cometh forth as the morning rising, fair as the moon, bright as the sun, terrible as an army set in array? 
    10: I went down into the garden of nuts, to see the fruits of the valleys, and to look if the vineyard had flourished, and the pomegranates budded.
    11: I knew not: my soul troubled me for the chariots of Aminadab. 
    12: Return, return, O Sulamitess: return, return that we may behold thee.

  Chapter 7.

    1: What shalt thou see in the Sulamitess but the companies of camps? How beautiful are thy steps in shoes, O prince's daughter! The joints of thy thighs are like jewels, that are made by the hand of a skillful workman. 
    2: Thy navel is like a round bowl never wanting cups. Thy belly is like a heap of wheat, set about with lilies. 
    3: Thy two breasts are like two young roes that are twins. 
    4: Thy neck as a tower of ivory. Thy eyes like the fishpools in Hesebon, which are in the gate of the daughter of the multitude. Thy nose is as the tower of Libanus, that looketh toward Damascus. 
    5: Thy head is like Carmel: and the hairs of thy head as the purple of the king bound in the channels.
    6: How beautiful art thou, and how comely, my dearest, in delights! 
    7: Thy stature is like to a palm tree, and thy breasts to clusters of grapes. 
    8: I said: I will go up into the palm tree, and will take hold of the fruit thereof: and thy breasts shall be as the clusters of the vine: and the odour of thy mouth like apples. 
    9: Thy throat like the best wine, worthy for my beloved to drink, and for his lips and his teeth to ruminate. 
    10: I to my beloved, and his turning is towards me.
    11: Come, my beloved, let us go forth into the field, let us abide in the villages. 
    12: Let us get up early to the vineyards, let us see if the vineyard flourish, if the flowers be ready to bring forth fruits, if the pomegranates flourish: there will I give thee my breasts. 
    13: The mandrakes give a smell. In our gates are all fruits: the new and the old, my beloved, I have kept for thee.

  Chapter 8.

    1: Who shall give thee to me for my brother, sucking the breasts of my mother, that I may find thee without, and kiss thee, and now no man may despise me? 
    2: I will take hold of thee, and bring thee Into my mother's house: there thou shalt teach me, and I will give thee a cup of spiced wine and new wine of my pomegranates. 
    3: His left hand under my head, and his right hand shall embrace me. 
    4: I adjure you, O daughters of Jerusalem, that you stir not up, nor awake my love till she please. 
    5: Who is this that cometh up from the desert, flowing with delights, leaning upon her beloved? Under the apple tree I raised thee up: there thy mother was corrupted, there she was defloured that bore thee.
    6: Put me as a seal upon thy heart, as a seal upon thy arm, for love is strong as death, jealousy as hard as hell, the lamps thereof are fire and flames. 
    7: Many waters cannot quench charity, neither can the floods drown it: if a man should give all the substance of his house for love, he shall despise it as nothing. 
    8: Our sister is little, and hath no breasts. What shall we do to our sister in the day when she is to be spoken to? 
    9: If she be a wall: let us build upon it bulwarks of silver: if she be a door, let us join it together with boards or cedar. 
    10: I am a wall: and my breasts are as a tower since I am become in his presence as one finding peace.
    11: The peaceable had a vineyard, in that which hath people: he let out the same to keepers, every man bringeth for the fruit thereof a thousand pieces of silver. 
    12: My vineyard is before me. A thousand are for thee, the peaceable, and two hundred for them that keep the fruit thereof. 
    13: Thou that dwellest in the gardens, the friends hearken: make me hear thy voice. 
    14: Flee away, O my beloved, and be like to the roe, and to the young hart upon the mountains of aromatical spices.

End of day 194.