Day 214:

Reading Isaiah, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: I will sing to my beloved the canticle of my cousin concerning his vineyard. My beloved had a vineyard on a hill in a fruitful place. 
    2: And he fenced it in, and picked the stones out of it, and planted it with the choicest vines, and built a tower in the midst thereof, and set up a winepress therein: and he looked that it should bring forth grapes, and it broutht forth wild grapes. 
    3: And now, O ye inhabitants of Jerusalem, and ye men of Juda, judge between me and my vineyard. 
    4: What is there that I ought to do more to my vineyard, that I have not done to it? 
    5: And now I will shew you what I will do to my vineyard. I will take away the hedge thereof, and it shall be wasted: I will break down the wall thereof, and it shall be trodden down.
    6: And I will make it desolate: it shall not be pruned, and it shall not be digged: but briers and thorns shall come up: and I will command the clouds to rain no rain upon it. 
    7: For the vineyard of the Lord of hosts is the house of Israel: and the man of Juda, his pleasant plant: and I looked that he should do judgment, and behold iniquity: and do justice, and behold a cry. 
    8: Woe to you that join house to house and lay field to field, even to the end of the place: shall you alone dwell in the midst of the earth? 
    9: These things are in my ears, saith the Lord of hosts: unless many great and fair houses shall become desolate, without an inhabitant. 
    10: For ten acres of vineyard shall yield one little measure, and thirty bushels of seed shall yield three bushels.
    11: Woe to you that rise up early in the morning to follow drunkenness, and to drink till the evening, to be inflamed with wine. 
    12: The harp, and the lyre, and the timbrel, and the pipe, and wine are in your feasts: and the work of the Lord you regard not, nor do you consider the works of his hands. 
    13: Therefore is my people led away captive, because they had not knowledge, and their nobles have perished with famine, and their multitude were dried up with thirst. 
    14: Therefore hath hell enlarged her soul, and opened her mouth without any bounds, and their strong ones, and their people, and their high and glorious ones shall go down into it. 
    15: And man shall be brought down, and man shall be humbled, and the eyes of the lofty shall be brought low.
    16: And the Lord of hosts shall be exalted in judgment, and the holy God shall be sanctified in justice. 
    17: And the lambs shall feed according to their order, and strangers shall eat the deserts turned into fruitfulness. 
    18: Woe to you that draw iniquity with cords of vanity, and sin as the rope of a cart. 
    19: That say: Let him make haste, and let his work come quickly, that we may see it: and let the counsel of the Holy One of Israel come, that we may know it. 
    20: Woe to you that call evil good, and good evil: that put darkness for light, and light for darkness: that put bitter for sweet, and sweet for bitter.
    21: Woe to you that are wise in your own eyes, and prudent in your own conceits. 
    22: Woe to you that are mighty to drink wine, and stout men at drunkenness. 
    23: That justify the wicked for gifts, and take away the justice of the just from him. 
    24: Therefore as the tongue of the fire devoureth the stubble, and the heat of the dame consumeth it: so shall their root be as ashes, and their bud shall go up as dust: for they have cast away the law of the Lord of hosts, and have blasphemed the word of the Holy One of Israel. 
    25: Therefore is the wrath of the Lord kindled against his people, and he hath stretched out his hand upon them, and struck them: and the mountains were troubled, and their carcasses became as dung in the midst of the streets. For all this his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.
    26: And he will lift up a sign to the nations afar off, and will whistle to them from the ends of the earth: and behold they shall come with speed swiftly. 
    27: There is none that shall faint, nor labour among them: they shall not slumber nor sleep, neither shall the girdle of their loins be loosed, nor the latchet of their shoes be broken. 
    28: Their arrows are sharp, and all their bows are bent. The hoofs of their horses shall be like the hint, and their wheels like the violence of a tempest. 
    29: Their roaring like that of a lion, they shall roar like young lions: yea they shall roar, and take hold of the prey, and they shall keep fast hold of it, and there shall be none to deliver it. 
    30: And they shall make a noise against them that day, like the roaring of the sea; we shall look towards the land, and behold darkness of tribulation, and the light is darkened with the mist thereof.

  Chapter 6.

    1: In the year that king Ozias died, I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne high and elevated: and his train filled the temple. 
    2: Upon it stood the seraphims: the one had six wings, and the other had six wings: with two they covered his face, and with two they covered his feet, and with two they flew. 
    3: And they cried one to another, and said: Holy, holy, holy, the Lord God of hosts, all the earth is full of his glory. 
    4: And the lintels of the doors were moved at the voice of him that cried, and the house was filled with smoke. 
    5: And I said: Woe is me, because I have held my peace; because I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people that hath unclean lips, and I have seen with my eyes the King the Lord of hosts.
    6: And one of the seraphims flew to me, and in his hand was a live coal, which he had taken with the tongs off the altar. 
    7: And he touched my mouth, and said: Behold this hath touched thy lips, and thy iniquities shall be taken away, and thy sin shall be cleansed. 
    8: And I heard the voice of the Lord, saying: Whom shall I send? and who shall go for us? And I said: Lo, here am I, send me. 
    9: And he said: Go, and thou shalt say to this people: Hearing, hear, and understand not: and see the vision, and know it not. 
    10: Blind the heart of this people, and make their ears heavy, and shut their eyes: lest they see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and be converted and I heal them.
    11: And I said: How long, O Lord? And he said: Until the cities be wasted without inhabitant, and the houses without man, and the land shall be left desolate. 
    12: And the Lord shall remove men far away, and she shall be multiplied that was left in the midst of the earth. 
    13: And there shall be still a tithing therein, and she shall turn, and shall be made a shew as a turpentine tree, and as an oak that spreadeth its branches: that which shall stand therein, shall be a holy seed.

  Chapter 7.

    1: And it came to pass in the days of Achaz the son of Joathan, the son of Ozias, king of Juda, that Basin king of Syria, and Phacee the son of Romelia king of Israel, came up to Jerusalem, to fight against it: but they could not prevail over it. 
    2: And they told the house of David, saying: Syria hath rested upon Ephraim, and his heart was moved, and the heart of his people, as the trees of the woods are moved with the wind. 
    3: And the Lord said to Isaias: Go forth to meet Achaz, thou and Jasub thy son that is left, to the conduit of the upper pool, in the way of the fuller's field. 
    4: And thou shalt say to him: See thou be quiet: fear not, and let not thy heart be afraid of the two tails of these fire brands, smoking with the wrath of the fury of Rasin king of Syria, and of the son of Romelia. 
    5: Because Syria hath taken counsel against thee, unto the evil of Ephraim and the son of Romelia, saying:
    6: Let us go up to Juda, and rouse it up, and draw it away to us, and make the son of Tabeel king in the midst thereof. 
    7: Thus saith the Lord God: It shall not stand, and this shall not be. 
    8: But the head of Syria is Damascus, and the head of Damascus is Basin: and within threescore and five years, Ephraim shall cease to be a people: 
    9: And the head of Ephraim is Samaria and the head of Samaria the son of Romelia. If you will not believe, you shall not continue. 
    10: And the Lord spoke again to Achaz, saying:
    11: Ask thee a sign of the Lord thy God either unto the depth of hell, or unto the height above. 
    12: And Achaz said: I will not ask, and I will not tempt the Lord. 
    13: And he said: Hear ye therefore, O house of David: Is it a small thing for you to be grievous to men, that you are grievous to my God also? 
    14: Therefore the Lord himself shall give you a sign. Behold a virgin shall conceive, and bear a son, and his name shall be called Emmanuel. 
    15: He shall eat butter and honey, that he may know to refuse the evil, and to choose the good.
    16: For before the child know to refuse the evil, and to choose the good, the land which thou abhorrest shall be forsaken of the face of her two kings. 
    17: The Lord shall bring upon thee, and upon thy people, and upon the house of thy father, days that have not come since the time of the separation of Ephraim from Juda with the king of the Assyrians. 
    18: And it shall come to pass in that day, that the Lord shall hiss for the fly, that is in the uttermost parts of the rivers of Egypt, and for the bee that is in the land of Assyria. 
    19: And they shall come, and shall all of them rest in the torrents of the valleys, and in the holes of the rocks, and upon all places set with shrubs, and in all hollow places. 
    20: In that day the Lord shall shave with a razor that is hired by them that are beyond the river, by the king of the Assyrians, the head and the hairs of the feet, and the whole beard.
    21: And it shall come to pass in that day, that a man shall nourish a young cow, and two sheep. 
    22: And for the abundance of milk he shall eat butter: for butter and honey shall every one eat that shall be left in the midst of the land. 
    23: And it shall come to pass in that day, that every place where there were a thousand vines, at a thousand pieces of silver, shall become thorns and briers. 
    24: With arrows and with bows they shall go in thither: for briars and thorns shall be in all the land. 
    25: And as for all the hills that shall be raked with a rake, the fear of thorns and briers shall not come thither, but they shall be for the ox to feed on, and the lesser cattle to tread upon.

  Chapter 8.

    1: And the Lord said to me: Take thee a great book, and write in it with a man's pen. Take away the spoils with speed, quickly take the prey. 
    2: And I took unto me faithful witnesses, Urias the priest, and Zacharias the son of Barachias. 
    3: And I went to the prophetess, and she conceived, and bore a son. And the Lord said to me: Call his name, Hasten to take away the spoils: Make haste to take away the prey. 
    4: For before the child know to call his father and his mother, the strength of Damascus, and the spoils of Samaria shall be taken away before the king of the Assyrians. 
    5: And the Lord spoke to me again, saying:
    6: Forasmuch as this people hath cast away the waters of Siloe, that go with silence, and hath rather taken Basin, and the son of Romelia: 
    7: Therefore behold the Lord will bring upon them the waters of the river strong and many, the king of the Assyrians, and all his glory: and he shall come up over all his channels, and shall overflow all his banks, 
    8: And shall pass through Juda, overflowing, and going over shall reach even to the neck. And the stretching out of his wings shall fill the breadth of thy land, O Emmanuel. 
    9: Gather yourselves together, O ye people, and be overcome, and give ear, all ye lands afar off: strengthen yourselves, and be overcome, gird yourselves, and be overcome. 
    10: Take counsel together, and it shall be defeated: speak a word, and it shall not be done: because God is with us.
    11: For thus saith the Lord to me: As he hath taught me, with a strong arm, that I should not walk in the way of this people, saying: 
    12: Say ye not: A conspiracy: for all that this people speaketh, is a conspiracy: neither fear ye their fear, nor be afraid. 
    13: Sanctify the Lord of hosts himself: and let him be your fear, and let him be your dread. 
    14: And he shall be a sanctification to you. But for a stone or stumbling, and for a rock of offence to the two houses of Israel, for a snare and a ruin to the inhabitants of Jerusalem. 
    15: And very many of them shall stumble and fall, and shall be broken in pieces, and shall be snared, and taken.
    16: Bind up the testimony, seal the law among my disciples. 
    17: And I will wait for the Lord, who hath hid his face from the house of Jacob, and I will look for him. 
    18: Behold I and my children, whom the Lord hath given me for a sign, and for a wonder in Israel from the Lord of hosts, who dwelleth in mount Sion. 
    19: And when they shall say to you: Seek of pythons, and of diviners, who mutter in their enchantments: should not the people seek of their God, for the living of the dead? 
    20: To the law rather, and to the testimony. And if they speak not according to this word, they shall not have the morning light.
    21: And they shall pass by it, they shall fall, and be hungry: and when they shall be hungry, they will be angry, and curse their king, and their God, and look upwards. 
    22: And they shall look to the earth, and behold trouble and darkness, weakness and distress, and a mist following them, and they cannot fly away from their distress.

End of day 214.