Day 220:

Reading Isaiah, chapters ['29', '30', '31', '32']:

  Chapter 29.

    1: Woe to Ariel, to Ariel the city which David took: year is added to year: the solemnities are at an end. 
    2: And I will make a trench about Ariel, and it shall be in sorrow and mourning, and it shall be to me as Ariel. 
    3: And I will make a circle round about thee, and will cast up a rampart against thee, and raise up bulwarks to besiege thee. 
    4: Thou shalt be brought down, thou shalt speak out of the earth, and thy speech shall be heard out of the ground: and thy voice shall be from the earth like that of the python, and out of the ground thy speech shall mutter. 
    5: And the multitude of them that fan thee, shall be like small dust: and as ashes passing away, the multitude of them that have prevailed against thee.
    6: And it shall be at an instant suddenly. A visitation shall come from the Lord of hosts in thunder, and with earthquake, and with a great noise of whirlwind and tempest, and with the flame of devouring fire. 
    7: And the multitude of all nations that have fought against Ariel, shall be as the dream of a vision by night, and all that have fought, and besieged and prevailed against it. 
    8: And as he that is hungry dreameth, and eateth, but when he is awake, his soul is empty: and as he that is thirsty dreameth, and drinketh, and after he is awake, is yet faint with thirst, and his soul is empty: so shall be the multitude of all the Gentiles, that have fought against mount Sion. 
    9: Be astonished, and wander, waver, and stagger: be drunk, and not with wine: stagger, and not with drunkenness. 
    10: For the Lord hath mingled for you the spirit of a deep sleep, he will shut up your eyes, he will cover your prophets and princes, that see visions.
    11: And the vision of all shall be unto you as the words of a book that is sealed, which when they shall deliver to one that is learned, they shall say: Read this: and he shall answer: I cannot, for it is sealed. 
    12: And the book shall be given to one that knoweth no letters, and it shall be said to him: Read: and he shall answer: I know no letters. 
    13: And the Lord said: Forasmuch as this people draw near me with their mouth, and with their lips glorify me, but their heart is far from me, and they have feared me with the commandment and doctrines of men: 
    14: Therefore behold I will proceed to cause an admiration in this people, by a great and wonderful miracle: for wisdom shall perish from their wise men, and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid. 
    15: Woe to you that are deep of heart, to hide your counsel from the Lord: and their works are in the dark, and they say: Who seeth us, and who knoweth us?
    16: This thought of yours is perverse: as if the clay should think against the potter, and the work should say to the maker thereof: Thou madest me not: or the thing framed should say to him that fashioned it: Thou understandest not. 
    17: Is it not yet a very little while, and Libanus shall be turned into charmel, and charmel shall be esteemed as a forest? 
    18: And in that day the deaf shall hear the words of the book, and out of darkness and obscurity the eyes of the blind shall see. 
    19: And the meek shall increase their joy in the Lord, and the poor men shall rejoice in the Holy One of Israel. 
    20: For he that did prevail hath failed, the scorner is consumed, and they are all cut off that watched for iniquity:
    21: That made men sin by word, and supplanted him that reproved them in the gate, and declined in vain from the just. 
    22: Therefore thus saith the Lord to the house of Jacob, he that redeemed Abraham: Jacob shall not now be confounded, neither shall his countenance now be ashamed: 
    23: But when he shall see his children, the work of my hands in the midst of him sanctifying my name, and they shall sanctify the Holy One of Jacob, and shall glorify the God of Israel: 
    24: And they that erred in spirit, shall know understanding, and they that murmured, shall learn the law.

  Chapter 30.

    1: Woe to you, apostate children, saith the Lord, that you would take counsel, and not of me: and would begin a web, and not by my spirit, that you might add sin upon sin: 
    2: Who walk to go down into Egypt, and have not asked at my mouth, hoping for help in the strength of Pharao, and trusting in the shadow of Egypt. 
    3: And the strength of Pharao shall be to your confusion, and the confidence of the shadow of Egypt to your shame. 
    4: For thy princes were in Tanis, and thy messengers came even to Hanes. 
    5: They were all confounded at a people that could not profit them: they were no help, nor to any profit, but to confusion and to reproach.
    6: The burden of the beasts of the south. In a land of trouble and distress, from whence come the lioness, and the lion, the viper and the flying basilisk, they carry their riches upon the shoulders of beasts, and their treasures upon the bunches of camels to a people that shall not be able to profit them. 
    7: For Egypt shall help in vain, and to no purpose: therefore have I cried concerning this: It is pride only, sit still. 
    8: Now therefore go in and write for them upon box, and note it diligently in a book, and it shall be in the latter days for a testimony for ever. 
    9: For it is a people that provoketh to wrath, and lying children, children that will not hear the law of God. 
    10: Who say to the seers: See not: and to them that behold: Behold not for us those things that are right: speak unto us pleasant things, see errors for us.
    11: Take away from me the way, turn away the path from me, let the Holy One of Israel cease from before us. 
    12: Therefore thus saith the Holy One of Israel: Because you have rejected this word, and have trusted in oppression and tumult, and have leaned upon it: 
    13: Therefore shall this iniquity be to you as a breach that falleth, and is found wanting in a high wall, for the destruction thereof shall come on a sudden, when it is not looked for. 
    14: And it shall be broken small, as the potter's vessel is broken all to pieces with mighty breaking, and there shall not a sherd be found of the pieces thereof, wherein a little fire may be carried from the hearth, or a, little water be drawn out of the pit. 
    15: For thus saith the Lord God the Holy One of Israel: If you return and be quiet, you shall be saved: in silence and in hope shall your strength be. And you would not:
    16: But have said: No, but we will flee to horses: therefore shall you flee. And we will mount upon swift ones: therefore shall they be swifter that shall pursue after you. 
    17: A thousand men shall flee for fear of one: and for fear of five shall you flee, till you be left as the mast of a ship on the top of a mountain, and as an ensign upon a hill. 
    18: Therefore the Lord waiteth that be may have mercy on you: and therefore shall he be exalted sparing you: because the Lord is the God of judgment: blessed are all they that wait for him. 
    19: For the people of Sion shall dwell in Jerusalem: weeping thou shalt not weep, he will surely have pity on thee: at the voice of thy cry, as soon as he shall hear, he will answer thee. 
    20: And the Lord will give you spare bread, and short water: and will not cause thy teacher to flee away from thee any more, and thy eyes shall see thy teacher.
    21: And thy ears shall hear the word of one admonishing thee behind thy back: This is the way, walk ye in it: and go not aside neither to the right hand, nor to the left. 
    22: And thou shalt defile the plates of thy graven things of silver, and the garment of thy molten things of gold, and shalt cast them away as the uncleanness of a menstruous woman. Thou shalt say to it: Get thee hence. 
    23: And rain shall be given to thy seed, wheresoever thou shalt sow in the land: and the bread of the corn of the land shall be most plentiful, and fat. The lamb in that day shall feed at large in thy possession: 
    24: And thy oxen, and the ass colts that till the ground, shall eat mingled provender as it was winnowed in the floor. 
    25: And there shall be upon every high mountain, and upon every elevated hill rivers of running waters in the day of the slaughter of many, when the tower shall fall.
    26: And the light of the moon shall be as the light of the sun, and the light of the sun shall be sevenfold, as the light of seven days: in the day when the Lord shall bind up the wound of his people, and shall heal the stroke of their wound. 
    27: Behold the name of the Lord cometh from afar, his wrath burneth, and is heavy to bear: his lips are filled with indignation, and his tongue as a devouring fire. 
    28: His breath as a torrent overflowing even to the midst of the neck, to destroy the nations unto nothing, and the bridle of error that was in the jaws of the people. 
    29: You shall have a song as in the night of the sanctified solemnity, and joy of heart, as when one goeth with a pipe, to come into the mountain of the Lord, to the Mighty One of Israel. 
    30: And the Lord shall make the glory of his voice to be heard, and shall shew the terror of his arm, in the threatening of wrath, and the dame of devouring fire: he shall crush to pieces with whirlwind, and hailstones.
    31: For at the voice of the Lord the Assyrian shall fear being struck with the rod. 
    32: And the passage of the rod shall be strongly grounded, which the Lord shall make to rest upon him with timbrels and harps, and in great battles he shall over throw them. 
    33: For Topheth is prepared from yesterday, prepared by the king, deep, and wide. The nourishment thereof is fire and much wood: the breath of the Lord as a torrent of brimstone kindling it.

  Chapter 31.

    1: Woe to them that go down to Egypt for help, trusting in horses, and putting their confidence in chariots, because they are many: and in horsemen, because they are very strong: and have not trusted in the Holy One of Israel, and have not sought after the Lord. 
    2: But he that is the wise one hath brought evil, and hath not removed his words: and he will rise up against the house of the wicked, and against the aid of them that work iniquity. 
    3: Egypt is man, and not God: and their horses, flesh, and not spirit: and the Lord shall put down his hand, and the helper shall fall, and he that is helped shall fall, and they shall all be confounded together. 
    4: For thus saith the Lord to me: Like as the lion roareth, and the lion's whelp upon his prey, and when a multitude of shepherds shall come against him, he will not fear at their voice, nor be afraid of their multitude: so shall the Lord of hosts come down to fight upon mount Sion, and upon the hill thereof. 
    5: As birds dying, so will the Lord of hosts protect Jerusalem, protecting and delivering, passing over and saving.
    6: Return as you had deeply revolted, O children of Israel. 
    7: For in that day a man shall cast away his idols of silver, and his idols of gold, which your hands have made for you to sin. 
    8: And the Assyrian shall fall by the sword not of a man, and the sword not of a man shall devour him, and he shall flee not at the face of the sword: and his young men shall be tributaries. 
    9: And his strength shall pass away with dread, and his princes fleeing shall be afraid: the Lord hath said it, whose die is in Sion, and his furnace in Jerusalem.

  Chapter 32.

    1: Behold a king shall reign in justice, and princes shall rule in judgment. 
    2: And a man shall be as when one is hid from the wind, and hideth himself from a storm, as rivers of waters in drought, and the shadow of a rock that standeth out in a desert land. 
    3: The eyes of them that see shall not be dim, and the ears of them that hear shall hearken diligently. 
    4: And the heart of fools shall understand knowledge, and the tongue of stammerers shall speak readily and plain. 
    5: The fool shall no more be called prince: neither shall the deceitful be called great:
    6: For the fool will speak foolish things, and his heart will work iniquity, to practise hypocrisy, and speak to the Lord deceitfully, and to make empty the soul of the hungry, and take away drink from the thirsty. 
    7: The vessels of the deceitful are most wicked: for he hath framed devices to destroy the meek, with lying words, when the poor man speaketh judgment. 
    8: But the prince will devise such things as are worthy of a prince, and he shall stand above the rulers. 
    9: Rise up, ye rich women, and hear my voice: ye confident daughters, give ear to my speech. 
    10: For after days and a year, you that are confident shall be troubled: for the vintage is at an end, the gathering shall come no more.
    11: Be astonished, ye rich women, be troubled, ye confident ones: strip yen, and be confounded, gird your loins. 
    12: Mourn for your breasts, for the delightful country, for the fruitful vineyard. 
    13: Upon the land of my people shall thorns and briers come up: how much more upon all the houses of joy, of the city that rejoiced? 
    14: For the house is forsaken, the multitude of the city is left, darkness and obscurity are come upon its dens for ever. A joy of wild asses, the pastures of flocks, 
    15: Until the spirit be poured upon us from on high: and the desert shall be as a charmel, and charmel shall be counted for a forest.
    16: And judgment shall dwell in the wilderness, and justice shall sit in charmel. 
    17: And the work of justice shall be peace, and the service of justice quietness, and security for ever. 
    18: And my people shall sit in the beauty of peace, and in the tabernacles of confidence, and in wealthy rest. 
    19: But hail shall be in the descent of the forest, and the city shall be made very low. 
    20: Blessed are ye that sow upon all waters, sending thither the foot of the ox and the ass.

End of day 220.