Day 319:

Reading 1-Corinthians, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: It is absolutely heard, that there is fornication among you, and such fornication as the like is not among the heathens; that one should have his father's wife. 
    2: And you are puffed up; and have not rather mourned, that he might be taken away from among you, that hath done this deed. 
    3: I indeed, absent in body, but present in spirit, have already judged, as though I were present, him that hath so done, 
    4: In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, you being gathered together, and my spirit, with the power of our Lord Jesus; 
    5: To deliver such a one to Satan for the destruction of the flesh, that the spirit may be saved in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ.
    6: Your glorying is not good. Know you not that a little leaven corrupteth the whole lump? 
    7: Purge out the old leaven, that you may be a new paste, as you are unleavened. For Christ our pasch is sacrificed. 
    8: Therefore let us feast, not with the old leaven, nor with the leaven of malice and wickedness; but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth. 
    9: I wrote to you in an epistle, not to keep company with fornicators. 
    10: I mean not with the fornicators of this world, or with the covetous, or the extortioners, or the servers of idols; otherwise you must needs go out of this world.
    11: But now I have written to you, not to keep company, if any man that is named a brother, be a fornicator, or covetous, or a server of idols, or a railer, or a drunkard, or an extortioner: with such a one, not so much as to eat. 
    12: For what have I to do to judge them that are without? Do not you judge them that are within? 
    13: For them that are without, God will judge. Put away the evil one from among yourselves.

  Chapter 6.

    1: Dare any of you, having a matter against another, go to be judged before the unjust, and not before the saints? 
    2: Know you not that the saints shall judge this world? And if the world shall be judged by you, are you unworthy to judge the smallest matters? 
    3: Know you not that we shall judge angels? how much more things of this world? 
    4: If therefore you have judgments of things pertaining to this world, set them to judge, who are the most despised in the church. 
    5: I speak to your shame. Is it so that there is not among you any one wise man, that is able to judge between his brethren?
    6: But brother goeth to law with brother, and that before unbelievers. 
    7: Already indeed there is plainly a fault among you, that you have lawsuits one with another. Why do you not rather take wrong? Why do you not rather suffer yourselves to be defrauded? 
    8: But you do wrong and defraud, and that to your brethren. 
    9: Know you not that the unjust shall not possess the kingdom of God? Do not err: neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, 
    10: Nor the effeminate, nor liers with mankind, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor railers, nor extortioners, shall possess the kingdom of God.
    11: And such some of you were; but you are washed, but you are sanctified, but you are justified in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the Spirit of our God. 
    12: All things are lawful to me, but all things are not expedient. All things are lawful to me, but I will not be brought under the power of any. 
    13: Meat for the belly, and the belly for the meats; but God shall destroy both it and them: but the body is not for fornication, but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body. 
    14: Now God hath both raised up the Lord, and will raise us up also by his power. 
    15: Know you not that your bodies are the members of Christ? Shall I then take the members of Christ, and make them the members of an harlot? God forbid.
    16: Or know you not, that he who is joined to a harlot, is made one body? For they shall be, saith he, two in one flesh. 
    17: But he who is joined to the Lord, is one spirit. 
    18: Fly fornication. Every sin that a man doth, is without the body; but he that committeth fornication, sinneth against his own body. 
    19: Or know you not, that your members are the temple of the Holy Ghost, who is in you, whom you have from God; and you are not your own? 
    20: For you are bought with a great price. Glorify and bear God in your body.

  Chapter 7.

    1: Now concerning the thing whereof you wrote to me: It is good for a man not to touch a woman. 
    2: But for fear of fornication, let every man have his own wife, and let every woman have her own husband. 
    3: Let the husband render the debt to his wife, and the wife also in like manner to the husband. 
    4: The wife hath not power of her own body, but the husband. And in like manner the husband also hath not power of his own body, but the wife. 
    5: Defraud not one another, except, perhaps, by consent, for a time, that you may give yourselves to prayer; and return together again, lest Satan tempt you for your incontinency.
    6: But I speak this by indulgence, not by commandment. 
    7: For I would that all men were even as myself: but every one hath his proper gift from God; one after this manner, and another after that. 
    8: But I say to the unmarried, and to the widows: It is good for them if they so continue, even as I. 
    9: But if they do not contain themselves, let them marry. For it is better to marry than to be burnt. 
    10: But to them that are married, not I but the Lord commandeth, that the wife depart not from her husband.
    11: And if she depart, that she remain unmarried, or be reconciled to her husband. And let not the husband put away his wife. 
    12: For to the rest I speak, not the Lord. If any brother hath a wife that believeth not, and she consent to dwell with him, let him not put her away. 
    13: And if any woman hath a husband that believeth not, and he consent to dwell with her, let her not put away her husband. 
    14: For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the believing wife; and the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the believing husband: otherwise your children should be unclean; but now they are holy. 
    15: But if the unbeliever depart, let him depart. For a brother or sister is not under servitude in such cases. But God hath called us in peace.
    16: For how knowest thou, O wife, whether thou shalt save thy husband? Or how knowest thou, O man, whether thou shalt save thy wife? 
    17: But as the Lord hath distributed to every one, as God hath called every one, so let him walk: and so in all churches I teach. 
    18: Is any man called, being circumcised? let him not procure uncircumcision. Is any man called in uncircumcision? let him not be circumcised. 
    19: Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing: but the observance of the commandments of God. 
    20: Let every man abide in the same calling in which he was called.
    21: Wast thou called, being a bondman? care not for it; but if thou mayest be made free, use it rather. 
    22: For he that is called in the Lord, being a bondman, is the freeman of the Lord. Likewise he that is called, being free, is the bondman of Christ. 
    23: You are bought with a price; be not made the bondslaves of men. 
    24: Brethren, let every man, wherein he was called, therein abide with God. 
    25: Now concerning virgins, I have no commandment of the Lord; but I give counsel, as having obtained mercy of the Lord, to be faithful.
    26: I think therefore that this is good for the present necessity, that it is good for a man so to be. 
    27: Art thou bound to a wife? seek not to be loosed. Art thou loosed from a wife? seek not a wife. 
    28: But if thou take a wife, thou hast not sinned. And if a virgin marry, she hath not sinned: nevertheless, such shall have tribulation of the flesh. But I spare you. 
    29: This therefore I say, brethren; the time is short; it remaineth, that they also who have wives, be as if they had none; 
    30: And they that weep, as though they wept not; and they that rejoice, as if they rejoiced not; and they that buy, as though they possessed not;
    31: And they that use this world, as if they used it not: for the fashion of this world passeth away. 
    32: But I would have you to be without solicitude. He that is without a wife, is solicitous for the things that belong to the Lord, how he may please God. 
    33: But he that is with a wife, is solicitous for the things of the world, how he may please his wife: and he is divided. 
    34: And the unmarried woman and the virgin thinketh on the things of the Lord, that she may be holy both in body and in spirit. But she that is married thinketh on the things of the world, how she may please her husband. 
    35: And this I speak for your profit: not to cast a snare upon you; but for that which is decent, and which may give you power to attend upon the Lord, without impediment.
    36: But if any man think that he seemeth dishonoured, with regard to his virgin, for that she is above the age, and it must so be: let him do what he will; he sinneth not, if she marry. 
    37: For he that hath determined being steadfast in his heart, having no necessity, but having power of his own will; and hath judged this in his heart, to keep his virgin, doth well. 
    38: Therefore, both he that giveth his virgin in marriage, doth well; and he that giveth her not, doth better. 
    39: A woman is bound by the law as long as her husband liveth; but if her husband die, she is at liberty: let her marry to whom she will; only in the Lord. 
    40: But more blessed shall she be, if she so remain, according to my counsel; and I think that I also have the spirit of God.

  Chapter 8.

    1: Now concerning those things that are sacrificed to idols, we know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge puffeth up; but charity edifieth. 
    2: And if any man think that he knoweth any thing, he hath not yet known as he ought to know. 
    3: But if any man love God, the same is known by him. 
    4: But as for the meats that are sacrificed to idols, we know that an idol is nothing in the world, and that there is no God but one. 
    5: For although there be that are called gods, either in heaven or on earth (for there be gods many, and lords many).
    6: Yet to us there is but one God, the Father, of whom are all things, and we unto him; and one Lord Jesus Christ, by whom are all things, and we by him. 
    7: But there is not knowledge in every one. For some until this present, with conscience of the idol: eat as a thing sacrificed to an idol, and their conscience, being weak, is defiled. 
    8: But meat doth not commend us to God. For neither, if we eat, shall we have the more; nor, if we eat not, shall we have the less. 
    9: But take heed lest perhaps this your liberty become a stumblingblock to the weak. 
    10: For if a man see him that hath knowledge sit at meat in the idol's temple, shall not his conscience, being weak, be emboldened to eat those things which are sacrificed to idols?
    11: And through thy knowledge shall the weak brother perish, for whom Christ hath died? 
    12: Now when you sin thus against the brethren, and wound their weak conscience, you sin against Christ. 
    13: Wherefore, if meat scandalize my brother, I will never eat flesh, lest I should scandalize my brother.

End of day 319.