Day 172:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['113', '114', '115', '116']:

  Chapter 113.

    1: When Israel went out of Egypt, the house of Jacob from a barbarous people: 
    2: Judea made his sanctuary, Israel his dominion. 
    3: The sea saw and fled: Jordan was turned back. 
    4: The mountains skipped like rams, and the hills like the lambs of the flock. 
    5: What ailed thee, O thou sea, that thou didst flee: and thou, O Jordan, that thou wast turned back?
    6: Ye mountains, that ye skipped like rams, and ye hills, like lambs of the flock? 
    7: At the presence of the Lord the earth was moved, at the presence of the God of Jacob: 
    8: Who turned the rock into pools of water, and the stony hill into fountains of waters. 
    9: Not to us, O Lord, not to us; but to thy name give glory. 
    10: For thy mercy, and for thy truth's sake: lest the gentiles should say: Where is their God?
    11: But our God is in heaven: he hath done all things whatsoever he would. 
    12: The idols of the gentiles are silver and gold, the works of the hands of men. 
    13: They have mouths and speak not: they have eyes and see not. 
    14: They have ears and hear not: they have noses and smell not. 
    15: They have hands and feel not: they have feet and walk not: neither shall they cry out through their throat.
    16: Let them that make them become like unto them: and all such as trust in them. 
    17: The house of Israel hath hoped in the Lord: he is their helper and their protector. 
    18: The house of Aaron hath hoped in the Lord: he is their helper and their protector. 
    19: They that fear the Lord hath hoped in the Lord: he is their helper and their protector. 
    20: The Lord hath been mindful of us, and hath blessed us. He hath blessed the house of Israel: he hath blessed the house of Aaron.
    21: He hath blessed all that fear the Lord, both little and great. 
    22: May the Lord add blessings upon you: upon you, and upon your children. 
    23: Blessed be you of the Lord, who made heaven and earth. 
    24: The heaven of heaven is the Lord's: but the earth he has given to the children of men. 
    25: The dead shall not praise thee, O Lord: nor any of them that go down to hell.
    26: But we that live bless the Lord: from this time now and for ever.

  Chapter 114.

    1: I have loved, because the Lord will hear the voice of my prayer. 
    2: Because he hath inclined his ear unto me: and in my days I will call upon him. 
    3: The sorrows of death have encompassed me: and the perils of hell have found me. I met with trouble and sorrow: 
    4: And I called upon the name of the Lord. O Lord, deliver my soul. 
    5: The Lord is merciful and just, and our God sheweth mercy.
    6: The Lord is the keeper of little ones: I was little and he delivered me. 
    7: Turn, O my soul, into thy rest: for the Lord hath been bountiful to thee. 
    8: For he hath delivered my soul from death: my eyes from tears, my feet from falling. 
    9: I will please the Lord in the land of the living.

  Chapter 115.

    1: I have believed, therefore have I spoken; but I have been humbled exceedingly. 
    2: I said in my excess: Every man is a liar. 
    3: What shall I render to the Lord, for all the things he hath rendered unto me? 
    4: I will take the chalice of salvation; and I will call upon the name of the Lord. 
    5: I will pay my vows to the Lord before all his people:
    6: Precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his saints. 
    7: O Lord, for I am thy servant: I am thy servant, and the son of thy handmaid. Thou hast broken my bonds: 
    8: I will sacrifice to thee the sacrifice of praise, and I will call upon the name of the Lord. 
    9: I will pay my vows to the Lord in the sight of all his people: 
    10: In the courts of the house of the Lord, in the midst of thee, O Jerusalem.

  Chapter 116.

    1: O praise the Lord, all ye nations: praise him, all ye people. 
    2: For his mercy is confirmed upon us: and the truth of the Lord remaineth for ever.

End of day 172.