Day 115:

Reading Tobit, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: Then Tobias called the angel to him, whom he took to be a man, and said to him: Brother Azarias, I pray thee hearken to my words: 
    2: If I should give myself to be thy servant I should not make a worthy return for thy care. 
    3: However, I beseech thee, to take with thee beasts and servants, and to go to Gabelus to Rages the city of the Medes: and to restore to him his note of hand, and receive of him the money, and desire him to come to my wedding. 
    4: For thou knowest that my father numbereth the days: and if I stay one day more, his soul will be afflicted. 
    5: And indeed thou seest how Raguel hath adjured me, whose adjuring I cannot despise.
    6: Then Raphael took four of Raguel's servants, and two camels, and went to Rages the city of the Medes: and finding Gabelus, gave him his note of hand, and received of him all the money. 
    7: And he told him concerning Tobias the son of Tobias, all that had been done: and made him come with him to the wedding. 
    8: And when he was come into Raguel's house he found Tobias sitting at the table: and he leaped up, and they kissed each other: and Gabelus wept, and blessed God, 
    9: And said: The God of Israel bless thee, because thou art the son of a very good and just man, and that feareth God, and doth almsdeeds: 
    10: And may a blessing come upon thy wife and upon your parents.
    11: And may you see your children, and your children's children, unto the third and fourth generation: and may your seed be blessed by the God of Israel, who reigneth for ever and ever. 
    12: And when all had said, Amen, they went to the feast: but the marriage feast they celebrated also with the fear of the Lord.

  Chapter 10.

    1: But as Tobias made longer stay upon occasion of the marriage, Tobias his father was solicitous, saying: Why thinkest thou doth my son tarry, or why is he detained there? 
    2: Is Gabelus dead, thinkest thou, and no man will pay him the money? 
    3: And he began to be exceeding sad, both he and Anna his wife with him: and they began both to weep together: because their son did not return to them on the day appointed. 
    4: But his mother wept and was quite disconsolate, and said: Woe, woe is me, my son; why did we send thee to go to a strange country, the light of our eyes, the staff of our old age, the comfort of our life, the hope of our posterity? 
    5: We having all things together in thee alone, ought not to have let thee go from us.
    6: And Tobias said to her: Hold thy peace, and be not troubled, our son is safe: that man with whom we sent him is very trusty. 
    7: But she could by no means be comforted, but daily running out looked round about, and went into all the ways by which there seemed any hope he might return, that she might if possible see him coming afar off. 
    8: But Raguel said to his son in law: Stay here, and I will send a messenger to Tobias thy father, that thou art in health. 
    9: And Tobias said to him: I know that my father and mother now count the days, and their spirit is grievously afflicted within them. 
    10: And when Raguel had pressed Tobias with many words, and he by no means would hearken to him, he delivered Sara unto him, and half of all his substance in menservants, and womenservants, in cattle, in camels, and in kine, and in much money, and sent him away safe and joyful from him.
    11: Saying: The holy angel of the Lord be with you in your journey, and bring you through safe, and that you may find all things well about your parents, and my eyes see your children before I die. 
    12: And the parents taking their daughter kissed her, and let her go: 
    13: Admonishing her to honour her father and mother in law, to love her husband, to take care of the family, to govern the house, and to behave herself irreprehensibly.

  Chapter 11.

    1: And as they were returning they came to Charan, which is in the midway to Ninive, the eleventh day. 
    2: And the angel said: Brother Tobias, thou knowest how thou didst leave thy father. 
    3: If it please thee therefore, let us go before, and let the family follow softly after us, together with thy wife, and with the beasts. 
    4: And as this their going pleased him, Raphael said to Tobias: Take with thee of the gall of the fish, for it will be necessary. So Tobias took some of that gall and departed. 
    5: But Anna sat beside the way daily, on the top of a hill, from whence she might see afar off.
    6: And while she watched his coming from that place, she saw him afar off, and presently perceived it was her son coming: and returning she told her husband, saying: Behold thy son cometh. 
    7: And Raphael said to Tobias: As soon as thou shalt come into thy house, forthwith adore the Lord thy God: and giving thanks to him, go to thy father, and kiss him. 
    8: And immediately anoint his eyes with this gall of the fish, which thou carriest with thee. For be assured that his eyes shall be presently opened, and thy father shall see the light of heaven, and shall rejoice in the sight of thee. 
    9: Then the dog, which had been with them in the way, ran before, and coming as if he had brought the news, shewed his joy by his fawning and wagging his tail. 
    10: And his father that was blind, rising up, began to run stumbling with his feet: and giving a servant his hand, went to meet his son.
    11: And receiving him kissed him, as did also his wife, and they began to weep for joy. 
    12: And when they had adored God, and given him thanks, they sat down together. 
    13: Then Tobias taking of the gall of the fish, anointed his father's eyes. 
    14: And he stayed about half an hour: and a white skin began to come out of his eyes, like the skin of an egg. 
    15: And Tobias took hold of it, and drew it from his eyes, and immediately he recovered his sight.
    16: And they glorified God, both he and his wife and all that knew them. 
    17: And Tobias said: I bless thee, O Lord God of Israel, because thou hast chastised me, and thou hast saved me: and behold I see Tobias my son. 
    18: And after seven days Sara his son's wife, and all the family arrived safe, and the cattle, and the camels, and an abundance of money of his wife's: and that money also which he had received of Gabelus: 
    19: And he told his parents all the benefits of God, which he had done to him by the man that conducted him. 
    20: And Achior and Nabath the kinsmen of Tobias came, rejoicing for Tobias, and congratulating with him for all the good things that God had done for him.
    21: And for seven days they feasted and rejoiced all with great joy.

  Chapter 12.

    1: Then Tobias called to him his son, and said to him: What can we give to this holy man, that is come with thee? 
    2: Tobias answering, said to his father: Father, what wages shall we give him? or what can be worthy of his benefits? 
    3: He conducted me and brought me safe again, he received the money of Gabelus, he caused me to have my wife, and he chased from her the evil spirit, he gave joy to her parents, myself he delivered from being devoured by the fish, thee also he hath made to see the light of heaven, and we are filled with all good things through him. What can we give him sufficient for these things? 
    4: But I beseech thee, my father, to desire him, that he would vouchsafe to accept one half of all things that have been brought. 
    5: So the father and the son, calling him, took him aside: and began to desire him that he would vouchsafe to accept of half of all things that they had brought.
    6: Then he said to them secretly: Bless ye the God of heaven, give glory to him in the sight of all that live, because he hath shewn his mercy to you. 
    7: For it is good to hide the secret of a king: but honourable to reveal and confess the works of God. 
    8: Prayer is good with fasting and alms more than to lay up treasures of gold: 
    9: For alms delivereth from death, and the same is that which purgeth away sins, and maketh to find mercy and life everlasting. 
    10: But they that commit sin and iniquity, are enemies to their own soul.
    11: I discover then the truth unto you, and I will not hide the secret from you. 
    12: When thou didst pray with tears, and didst bury the dead, and didst leave thy dinner, and hide the dead by day in thy house, and bury them by night, I offered thy prayer to the Lord. 
    13: And because thou wast acceptable to God, it was necessary that temptation should prove thee. 
    14: And now the Lord hath sent me to heal thee, and to deliver Sara thy son's wife from the devil. 
    15: For I am the angel Raphael, one of the seven, who stand before the Lord.
    16: And when they had heard these things, they were troubled, and being seized with fear they fell upon the ground on their face. 
    17: And the angel said to them: Peace be to you, fear not. 
    18: For when I was with you, I was there by the will of God: bless ye him, and sing praises to him. 
    19: I seemed indeed to eat and to drink with you: but I use an invisible meat and drink, which cannot be seen by men. 
    20: It is time therefore that I return to him that sent me: but bless ye God, and publish all his wonderful works.
    21: And when he had said these things, he was taken from their sight, and they could see him no more. 
    22: Then they lying prostrate for three hours upon their face, blessed God: and rising up, they told all his wonderful works.

End of day 115.