Day 53:

Reading Joshua, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: And this lot fell to the tribe of Manasses (for he is the firstborn of Joseph) to Machir the firstborn of Manasses the father of Galaad, who was a warlike man, and had for possession Galaad and Basan. 
    2: And to the rest of the children of Manasses according to their families: to the children of Abiezer, and to the children of Helec, and to the children of Esriel, and to the children of Sechem, and to the children of Hepher, and to the children of Semida: these are the male children of Manasses the son of Joseph, by their kindreds. 
    3: But Salphaad the son of Hepher the son of Galaad the son of Machir the son of Manasses had no sons, but only daughters: whose names are these, Maala and Noa and Hegla and Melcha and Thersa. 
    4: And they came in the presence of Eleazar the priest and of Josue the son of Nun, and of the princes, saying: The Lord commanded by the hand of Moses, that a possession should be given us in the midst of our brethren. And he gave them according to the commandment of the Lord a possession amongst the brethren of their father. 
    5: And there fell ten portions to Manasses, beside the land of Galaad and Basan beyond the Jordan.
    6: For the daughters of Manasses possessed inheritance in the midst of his sons. And the land of Galaad fell to the lot of the rest of the children of Manasses. 
    7: And the border of Manasses was from Aser, Machmethath which looketh towards Sichem: and it goeth out on the right hand by the inhabitants of the fountain of Taphua. 
    8: For the lot of Manasses took in the land of Taphua, which is on the borders of Manasses, and belongs to the children of Ephraim. 
    9: And the border goeth down to the valley of the reeds, to the south of the torrent of the cities of Ephraim, which are in the midst of the cities of Manasses: the border of Manasses is on the north side of the torrent, and the outgoings of it are at the sea: 
    10: So that the possession of Ephraim is on the south, and on the north that of Manasses, and the sea is the border of both, and they are joined together in the tribe of Aser on the north, and in the tribe of Issachar on the east.
    11: And the inheritance of Manasses in Issachar and in Aser, was Bethsan and its villages, and Jeblaam with its villages, and the inhabitants of Dor, with the towns thereof: the inhabitants also of Endor with the villages thereof: and in like manner the inhabitants of Thenac with the villages thereof: and the inhabitants of Mageddo with their villages, and the third part of the city of Nopheth. 
    12: Neither could the children of Manasses overthrow these cities, but the Chanaanite began to dwell in his land. 
    13: But after that the children of Israel were grown strong, they subdued the Chanaanites, and made them their tributaries, and they did not kill them. 
    14: And the children of Joseph spoke to Josue, and said: Why hast thou given me but one lot and one portion to possess, whereas I am of so great a multitude, and the Lord hath blessed me? 
    15: And Josue said to them: If thou be a great people, go up into the woodland, and cut down room for thyself in the land of the Pherezite and the Raphaims: because the possession of mount Ephraim is too narrow for thee.
    16: And the children of Joseph answered him: We cannot go up to the mountains, for the Chanaanites that dwell in the low lands, wherein are situate Bethsan with its towns, and Jezrael in the midst of the valley, have chariots of iron. 
    17: And Josue said to the house of Joseph, to Ephraim and Manasses: Thou art a great people, and of great strength, thou shalt not have one lot only: 
    18: But thou shalt pass to the mountain, and shalt cut down the wood, and make thyself room to dwell in: and mayst proceed farther, when thou hast destroyed the Chanaanites, who as thou sayest have iron chariots, and are very strong.

  Chapter 18.

    1: And all the children of Israel assembled together in Silo, and there they set up the tabernacle of the testimony, and the land was subdued before them. 
    2: But there remained seven tribes of the children of Israel, which as yet had not received their possessions. 
    3: And Josue said to them: How long are you indolent and slack, and go not in to possess the land which the Lord the God of your fathers hath given you? 
    4: Choose of every tribe three men, that I may send them, and they may go and compass the land, and mark it out according to the number of each multitude: and bring back to me what they have marked out. 
    5: Divide to yourselves the land into seven parts: let Juda be in his bounds on the south side, and the house of Joseph on the north.
    6: The land in the midst between these mark ye out into seven parts; and you shall come hither to me, that I may cast lots for you before the Lord your God. 
    7: For the Levites have no part among you, but the priesthood of the Lord is their inheritance. And Gad and Ruben, and the half tribe of Manasses have already received their possessions beyond the Jordan eastward: which Moses the servant of the Lord gave them. 
    8: And when the men were risen up, to go to mark out the land, Josue commanded them, saying: Go round the land and mark it out, and return to me: that I may cast lots for you before the Lord in Silo. 
    9: So they went: and surveying it divided it into seven parts, writing them down in a book. And they returned to Josue, to the camp in Silo. 
    10: And he cast lots before the Lord in Silo, and divided the land to the children of Israel into seven parts.
    11: And first came up the lot of the children of Benjamin by their families, to possess the land between the children of Juda, and the children of Joseph. 
    12: And their border northward was from the Jordan: going along by the side of Jericho on the north side, and thence going up westward to the mountains, and reaching to the wilderness of Bethaven, 
    13: And passing along southward by Luza, the same is Bethel: and it goeth down into Ataroth-addar to the mountain, that is on the south of the nether Beth-horon. 
    14: And it bendeth thence going round towards the sea, south of the mountain that looketh towards Beth-horon to the southwest: and the outgoings thereof are into Cariathbaal, which is called also Cariathiarim, a city of the children of Juda. This is their coast towards the sea, westward. 
    15: But on the south side the border goeth out from part of Cariathiarim towards the sea, and cometh to the fountain of the waters of Nephtoa.
    16: And it goeth down to that part of the mountain that looketh on the valley of the children of Ennom: and is over against the north quarter in the furthermost part of the valley of Raphaim, and it goeth down into Geennom (that is the valley of Ennom) by the side of the Jebusite to the south: and cometh to the fountain of Rogel, 
    17: Passing thence to the north, and going out to Ensemes, that is to say, the fountain of the sue: 
    18: And it passeth along to the hills that are over against the ascent of Adommim: and it goeth down to Abenboen, that is, the stone of Boen the son of Ruben: and it passeth on the north side to the champaign countries; and goeth down into the plain, 
    19: And it passeth by Bethhagla northward: and the outgoings thereof are towards the north of the most salt sea at the south end of the Jordan: 
    20: Which is the border of it on the east side. This is the possession of the children of Benjamin by their borders round about, and their families.
    21: And their cities were, Jericho and Bethhagla and Vale-Casis, 
    22: Betharaba and Samaraim and Bethel, 
    23: And Avim and Aphara and Ophera, 
    24: The town Emona and Ophni and Gabee: twelve cities, and their villages. 
    25: Gabam and Rama and Beroth,
    26: And Mesphe, and Caphara, and Amosa, 
    27: And Recem, Jarephel and Tharela, 
    28: And Sela, Eleph and Jebus, which is Jerusalem, Gabaath and Cariath: fourteen cities, and their villages. This is the possession of the children of Benjamin by their families.

  Chapter 19.

    1: And the second lot came forth for the children of Simeon by their kindreds: and their inheritance was 
    2: In the midst of the possession of the children of Juda: Bersabee and Sabee and Molada, 
    3: And Hasersual, Bala and Asem, 
    4: And Eltholad, Bethul and Harma, 
    5: And Siceleg and Bethmarchaboth and Hasersusa,
    6: And Bethlebaoth and Sarohen: thirteen cities, and their villages. 
    7: Ain and Remmon and Athor and Asan: four cities, and their villages. 
    8: And all the villages round about these cities to Baalath Beer Ramath to the south quarter. This is the inheritance of the children of Simeon according to their kindreds, 
    9: In the possession and lot of the children of Juda: because it was too great, and therefore the children of Simeon had their possession in the midst of their inheritance. 
    10: And the third lot fell to the children of Zabulon by their kindreds: and the border of their possession was unto Sarid.
    11: And it went up from the sea and from Merala, and came to Debbaseth: as far as the torrent, which is over against Jeconam. 
    12: And it returneth from Sarid eastward to the borders of Ceseleththabor: and it goeth out to Dabereth, and ascendeth towards Japhie. 
    13: And it passeth along from thence to the east side of Gethhepher and Thacasin: and goeth out to Remmon, Amthar and Noa. 
    14: And it turneth about to the north of Hanathon: and the outgoings thereof are the valley of Jephtahel, 
    15: And Cateth and Naalol and Semeron and Jedala and Bethlehem: twelve cities and their villages.
    16: This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Zabulon by their kindreds, the cities and their villages. 
    17: The fourth lot came out to Issachar by their kindreds. 
    18: And his inheritance was Jezrael and Casaloth and Sunem, 
    19: And Hapharaim and Seen and Anaharath, 
    20: And Rabboth and Cesion, Abes,
    21: And Rameth and Engannim and Enhadda and Bethpheses. 
    22: And the border thereof cometh to Thabor and Sehesima and Bethsames: and the outgoings thereof shall be at the Jordan: sixteen cities, and their villages. 
    23: This is the possession of the sons of Issachar by their kindreds, the cities and their villages. 
    24: And the fifth lot fell to the tribe of the children of Aser by their kindreds: 
    25: And their border was Halcath and Chali and Beten and Axaph,
    26: And Elmelech and Amaad and Messal: and it reacheth to Carmel by the sea and Sihor and Labanath, 
    27: And it returneth towards the east to Bethdagon: and passeth along to Zabulon and to the valley of Jephthael towards the north to Bethemec and Nehiel. And it goeth out to the left side of Cabul, 
    28: And to Abaran and Rohob and Hamon and Cana, as far as the great Sidon. 
    29: And it returneth to Horma to the strong city of Tyre, and to Hosa: and the outgoings thereof shall be at the sea from the portion of Achziba: 
    30: And Amma and Aphec and Rohob: twenty-two cities, and their villages.
    31: This is the possession of the children of Aser by their kindreds, and the cities and their villages. 
    32: The sixth lot came out to the sons of Nephtali by their families: 
    33: And the border began from Heleph and Elon to Saananim, and Adami, which is Neceb, and Jebnael even to Lecum: and their outgoings unto the Jordan: 
    34: And the border returneth westward to Azanotthabor, and goeth out from thence to Hucuca, and passeth along to Zabulon southward, and to Aser westward, and to Juda upon the Jordan towards the rising of the sun. 
    35: And the strong cities are Assedim, Ser, and Emath, and Reccath and Cenereth,
    36: And Edema and Arama, Asor, 
    37: And Cedes and Edri, Enhasor, 
    38: And Jeron and Magdalel, Herem, and Bethanath and Bethsames: nineteen cities, and their villages. 
    39: This is the possession of the tribe of the children of Nephtali by their kindreds, the cities and their villages. 
    40: The seventh lot came out to the tribe of the children of Dan by their families:
    41: And the border of their possession was Saraa and Esthaol, and Hirsemes, that is, the city of the sun. 
    42: Selebin and Aialon and Jethela, 
    43: Elon and Themna and Acron, 
    44: Elthece, Gebbethon and Balaath, 
    45: And Jud and Bane and Barach and Gethremmon:
    46: And Mejarcon and Arecon, with the border that looketh towards Joppe, 
    47: And is terminated there. And the children of Dan went up and fought against Lesem, and took it: and they put it to the sword, and possessed it, and dwelt in it, calling the name of it Lesem Dan, by the name of Dan their father. 
    48: This is the possession of the tribe of the sons of Dan, by their kindreds, the cities and their villages. 
    49: And when he had made an end of dividing the land by lot to each one by their tribes, the children of Israel gave a possession to Josue the son of Nun in the midst of them, 
    50: According to the commandment of the Lord, the city which he asked for, Thamnath Saraa, in mount Ephraim: and he built up the city, and dwelt in it.
    51: These are the possessions which Eleazar the priest, and Josue the son of Nun, and the princes of the families, and of the tribes of the children of Israel, distributed by lot in Silo, before the Lord at the door of the tabernacle of the testimony, and they divided the land.

  Chapter 20.

    1: And the Lord spoke to Josue, saying: Speak to the children of Israel and say to them: 
    2: Appoint cities of refuge, a of which I spoke to you by the hand of Moses: 
    3: That whosoever shall kill a person unawares may flee to them: and may escape the wrath of the kinsman, who is the avenger of blood: 
    4: And when he shall flee to one of these cities: he shall stand before the gate of the city, and shall speak to the ancients of that city, such things as prove him innocent: and so shall they receive him, and give him a place to dwell in. 
    5: And when the avenger of blood shall pursue him, they shall not deliver him into his hands, because he slew his neighbour unawares, and is not proved to have been his enemy two or three days before.
    6: And he shall dwell in that city, till he stand before judgment to give an account of his fact, and till the death of the high priest, who shall be at that time: then shall the manslayer return, and go into his own city and house from whence he fled. 
    7: And they appointed Cedes in Galilee of mount Nephtali, and Sichem in mount Ephraim, and Cariath-Arbe, the same is Hebron in the mountain of Juda. 
    8: And beyond the Jordan to the east of Jericho, they appointed Bosor, which is upon the plain of the wilderness of the tribe of Ruben, and Ramoth in Galaad of the tribe of Gad, and Gaulon in Basan of the tribe of Manasses. 
    9: These cities were appointed for all the children of Israel, and for the strangers, that dwelt among them: that whosoever had killed a person unawares might flee to them, and not die by the hand of the kinsman, coveting to revenge the blood that was shed, until he should stand before the people to lay open his cause.

End of day 53.