Day 180:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['145', '146', '147', '148']:

  Chapter 145.

    1: Alleluia, of Aggeus and Zacharias. 
    2: Praise the Lord, O my soul, in my life I will praise the Lord: I will sing to my God as long as I shall be. Put not your trust in princes: 
    3: In the children of men, in whom there is no salvation. 
    4: His spirit shall go forth, and he shall return into his earth: in that day all their thoughts shall perish. 
    5: Blessed is he who hath the God of Jacob for his helper, whose hope is in the Lord his God:
    6: Who made heaven and earth, the sea, and all things that are in them. 
    7: Who keepeth truth for ever: who executeth judgment for them that suffer wrong: who giveth food to the hungry. The Lord looseth them that are fettered: 
    8: The Lord enlighteneth the blind. The Lord lifteth up them that are cast down: the Lord loveth the just. 
    9: The Lord keepeth the strangers, he will support the fatherless and the widow: and the ways of sinners he will destroy. 
    10: The Lord shall reign for ever: thy God, O Sion, unto generation and generation.

  Chapter 146.

    1: Praise ye the Lord, because psalm is good: to our God be joyful and comely praise. 
    2: The Lord buildeth up Jerusalem: he will gather together the dispersed of Israel. 
    3: Who healeth the broken of heart, and bindeth up their bruises. 
    4: Who telleth the number of the stars: and calleth them all by their names. 
    5: Great is our Lord, and great is his power: and of his wisdom there is no number.
    6: The Lord lifteth up the meek, and bringeth the wicked down even to the ground. 
    7: Sing ye to the Lord with praise: sing to our God upon the harp. 
    8: Who covereth the heaven with clouds, and prepareth rain for the earth. Who maketh grass to grow on the mountains, and herbs for the service of men. 
    9: Who giveth to beasts their food: and to the young ravens that call upon him. 
    10: He shall not delight in the strength of the horse: nor take pleasure in the legs of a man.
    11: The Lord taketh pleasure in them that fear him: and in them that hope in his mercy.

  Chapter 147.

    1: Praise the Lord, O Jerusalem: praise thy God, O Sion. 
    2: Because he hath strengthened the bolts of thy gates, he hath blessed thy children within thee. 
    3: Who hath placed peace in thy borders: and filleth thee with the fat of corn. 
    4: Who sendeth forth his speech to the earth: his word runneth swiftly. 
    5: Who giveth snow like wool: scattereth mists like ashes.
    6: He sendeth his crystal like morsels: who shall stand before the face of his cold? 
    7: He shall send out his word, and shall melt them: his wind shall blow, and the waters shall run. 
    8: Who declareth his word to Jacob: his justices and his judgments to Israel. 
    9: He hath not done in like manner to every nation: and his judgments he hath not made manifest to them. Alleluia.

  Chapter 148.

    1: Praise ye the Lord from the heavens: praise ye him in the high places. 
    2: Praise ye him, all his angels: praise ye him, all his hosts. 
    3: Praise ye him, O sun and moon: praise him, all ye stars and light. 
    4: Praise him, ye heavens of heavens: and let all the waters that are above the heavens 
    5: Praise the name of the Lord. For he spoke, and they were made: he commanded, and they were created.
    6: He hath established them for ever, and for ages of ages: he hath made a decree, and it shall not pass away. 
    7: Praise the Lord from the earth, ye dragons, and all ye deeps: 
    8: Fire, hail, snow, ice, stormy winds which fulfill his word: 
    9: Mountains and all hills, fruitful trees and all cedars: 
    10: Beasts and all cattle: serpents and feathered fowls:
    11: Kings of the earth and all people: princes and all judges of the earth: 
    12: Young men and maidens: let the old with the younger, praise the name of the Lord: 
    13: For his name alone is exalted. 
    14: The praise of him is above heaven and earth: and he hath exalted the horn of his people. A hymn to all his saints: to the children of Israel, a people approaching to him. Alleluia.

End of day 180.