Day 142:

Reading Job, chapters ['37', '38', '39', '40']:

  Chapter 37.

    1: At this my heart trembleth, and is moved out of its place. 
    2: Hear ye attentively the terror of his voice, and the sound that cometh out of his mouth. 
    3: He beholdeth under all the heavens, and his light is upon the ends of the earth. 
    4: After it a noise shall roar, he shall thunder with the voice of his majesty, and shall not be found out, when his voice shall be heard. 
    5: God shall thunder wonderfully with his voice, he that doth great and unsearchable things.
    6: He commandeth the snow to go down upon the earth, and the winter rain, and the shower of his strength. 
    7: He sealeth up the hand of all men, that every one may know his works. 
    8: Then the beast shall go into his covert, and shall abide in his den. 
    9: Out of the inner parts shall a tempest come, and cold out of the north. 
    10: When God bloweth there cometh frost, and again the waters are poured out abundantly.
    11: Corn desireth clouds, and the clouds spread their light: 
    12: Which go round about, whithersoever the will of him that governeth them shall lead them, to whatsoever he shall command them upon the face of the whole earth: 
    13: Whether in one tribe, or in his own land, or in what place soever of his mercy he shall command them to be found. 
    14: Hearken to these things, Job: Stand, and consider the wondrous works of God. 
    15: Dost thou know when God commanded the rains, to shew his light of his clouds?
    16: Knowest thou the great paths of the clouds, and the perfect knowledges? 
    17: Are not thy garments hot, when the south wind blows upon the earth? 
    18: Thou perhaps hast made the heavens with him, which are most strong, as if they were of molten brass. 
    19: shew us what we may say to him: for we are wrapped up in darkness. 
    20: Who shall tell him the things I speak? even if a man shall speak, he shall be swallowed up.
    21: But now they see not the light: the air on a sudden shall be thickened into clouds, and the wind shall pass and drive them away. 
    22: Cold cometh out of the north, and to God praise with fear. 
    23: We cannot find him worthily: he is great in strength, and in judgment, and in justice, and he is ineffable. 
    24: Therefore men shall fear him, and all that seem to themselves to be wise, shall not dare to behold him.

  Chapter 38.

    1: Then the Lord answered Job out of a whirlwind, and said: 
    2: Who is this that wrappeth up sentences in unskillful words? 
    3: Gird up thy loins like a man: I will ask thee, and answer thou me. 
    4: Where wast thou when I laid up the foundations of the earth? tell me if thou hast understanding. 
    5: Who hath laid the measures thereof, if thou knowest? or who hath stretched the line upon it?
    6: Upon what are its bases grounded? or who laid the corner stone thereof, 
    7: When the morning stars praised me together, and all the sons of God made a joyful melody? 
    8: Who shut up the sea with doors, when it broke forth as issuing out of the womb: 
    9: When I made a cloud the garment thereof, and wrapped it in a mist as in swaddling bands? 
    10: I set my bounds around it, and made it bars and doors:
    11: And I said: Hitherto thou shalt come, and shalt go no further, and here thou shalt break thy swelling waves. 
    12: Didst thou since thy birth command the morning, and shew the dawning of the day its place? 
    13: And didst thou hold the extremities of the earth shaking them, and hast thou shaken the ungodly out of it? 
    14: The seal shall be restored as clay, and shall stand as a garment: 
    15: From the wicked their light shall be taken away, and the high arm shall be broken.
    16: Hast thou entered into the depths of the sea, and walked in the lowest parts of the deep? 
    17: Have the gates of death been opened to thee, and hast thou seen the darksome doors? 
    18: Hast thou considered the breadth of the earth? tell me, if thou knowest all things? 
    19: Where is the way where light dwelleth, and where is the place of darkness: 
    20: That thou mayst bring every thing to its own bounds, and understand the paths of the house thereof.
    21: Didst thou know then that thou shouldst be born? and didst thou know the number of thy days? 
    22: Hast thou entered into the storehouses of the snow, or has thou beheld the treasures of the hail: 
    23: Which I have prepared for the time of the enemy, against the day of battle and war? 
    24: By what way is the light spread, and heat divided upon the earth? 
    25: Who gave a course to violent showers, or a way for noisy thunder:
    26: That it should rain on the earth without man in the wilderness, where no mortal dwelleth: 
    27: That it should fill the desert and desolate land, and should bring forth green grass? 
    28: Who is the father of rain? or who begot the drops of dew? 
    29: Out of whose womb came the ice; and the frost from heaven who hath gendered it? 
    30: The waters are hardened like a stone, and the surface of the deep is congealed.
    31: Shalt thou be able to join together the shining stars the Pleiades, or canst thou stop the turning about of Arcturus? 
    32: Canst thou bring forth the day star in its time, and make the evening star to rise upon the children of the earth? 
    33: Dost thou know the order of heaven, and canst thou set down the reason thereof on the earth? 
    34: Canst thou lift up thy voice to the clouds, that an abundance of waters may cover thee? 
    35: Canst thou send lightnings, and will they go, and will they return and say to thee: Here we are?
    36: Who hath put wisdom in the heart of man? or who gave the cock understanding? 
    37: Who can declare the order of the heavens, or who can make the harmony of heaven to sleep? 
    38: When was the dust poured on the earth, and the clods fastened together? 
    39: Wilt thou take the prey for the lioness, and satisfy the appetite of her whelps, 
    40: When they couch in the dens and lie in wait in holes?
    41: Who provideth food for the raven, when her young ones cry to God, wandering about, because they have no meat?

  Chapter 39.

    1: Knowest thou the time when the wild goats bring forth among the rocks, or hast thou observed the hinds when they fawn? 
    2: Hast thou numbered the months of their conceiving, or knowest thou the time when they bring forth? 
    3: They bow themselves to bring forth young, and they cast them, and send forth roarings. 
    4: Their young are weaned and go to feed: they go forth, and return not to them. 
    5: Who hath sent out the wild ass free, and who hath loosed his bonds?
    6: To whom I have given a house in the wilderness, and his dwellings in the barren land. 
    7: He scorneth the multitude of the city, he heareth not the cry of the driver. 
    8: He looketh round about the mountains of his pasture, and seeketh for every green thing. 
    9: Shall the rhinoceros be willing to serve thee, or will he stay at thy crib? 
    10: Canst thou bind the rhinoceros with thy thong to plough, or will he break the clods of the valleys after thee?
    11: Wilt thou have confidence in his great strength, and leave thy labours to him? 
    12: Wilt thou trust him that he will render thee the seed, and gather it into thy barnfloor? 
    13: The wing of the ostrich is like the wings of the heron, and of the hawk. 
    14: When she leaveth her eggs on the earth, thou perhaps wilt warm them in the dust. 
    15: She forgetteth that the foot may tread upon them, or that the beasts of the field may break them.
    16: She is hardened against her young ones, as though they were not hers, she hath laboured in vain, no fear constraining her. 
    17: For God hath deprived her of wisdom, neither hath he given her understanding. 
    18: When time shall be, she setteth up her wings on high: she scorneth the horse and his rider. 
    19: Wilt thou give strength to the horse, or clothe his neck with neighing? 
    20: Wilt thou lift him up like the locusts? the glory of his nostrils is terror.
    21: He breaketh up the earth with his hoof, he pranceth boldly, he goeth forward to meet armed men. 
    22: He despiseth fear, he turneth not his back to the sword, 
    23: Above him shall the quiver rattle, the spear and shield shall glitter. 
    24: Chasing and raging he swalloweth the ground, neither doth he make account when the noise of the trumpet soundeth. 
    25: When he heareth the trumpet he saith: Ha, ha: he smelleth the battle afar off, the encouraging of the captains, and the shouting of the army.
    26: Doth the hawk wax feathered by thy wisdom, spreading her wings to the south? 
    27: Will the eagle mount up at thy command, and make her nest in high places? 
    28: She abideth among the rocks, and dwelleth among cragged flints, and stony hills, where there is no access. 
    29: From thence she looketh for the prey, and her eyes behold afar off. 
    30: Her young ones shall suck up blood: and wheresoever the carcass shall be, she is immediately there.
    31: And the Lord went on, and said to Job: 
    32: Shall he that contendeth with God be so easily silenced? surely he that reproveth God, ought to answer him. 
    33: Then Job answered the Lord, and said: 
    34: What can I answer, who hath spoken inconsiderately? I will lay my hand upon my mouth. 
    35: One thing I have spoken, which I wish I had not said: and another, to which I will add no more.

  Chapter 40.

    1: And the Lord answering Job out of the whirlwind, said: 
    2: Gird up thy loins like a man: I will ask thee, and do thou tell me. 
    3: Wilt thou make void my judgment: and condemn me, that thou mayst be justified? 
    4: And hast thou an arm like God, and canst thou thunder with a voice like him? 
    5: Clothe thyself with beauty, and set thyself up on high and be glorious, and put on goodly garments.
    6: Scatter the proud in thy indignation, and behold every arrogant man, and humble him. 
    7: Look on all that are proud, and confound them, and crush the wicked in their place. 
    8: Hide them in the dust together, and plunge their faces into the pit. 
    9: Then I will confess that thy right hand is able to save thee. 
    10: Behold behemoth whom I made with thee, he eateth grass like an ox.
    11: His strength is in his loins, and his force in the navel of his belly. 
    12: He setteth up his tail like a cedar, the sinews of his testicles are wrapped together. 
    13: His bones are like pipes of brass, his gristle like plates of iron. 
    14: He is the beginning of the ways of God, who made him, he will apply his sword. 
    15: To him the mountains bring forth grass: there all the beasts of the field shall play.
    16: He sleepeth under the shadow, in the covert of the reed, and in moist places. 
    17: The shades cover his shadow, the willows of the brook shall compass him about. 
    18: Behold, he will drink up a river, and not wonder: and he trusteth that the Jordan may run into his mouth. 
    19: In his eyes as with a hook he shall take him, and bore through his nostrils with stakes. 
    20: Canst thou draw out the leviathan with a hook, or canst thou tie his tongue with a cord?
    21: Canst thou put a ring in his nose, or bore through his jaw with a buckle? 
    22: Will he make many supplications to thee, or speak soft words to thee? 
    23: Will he make a covenant with thee, and wilt thou take him to be a servant for ever? 
    24: Shalt thou play with him as with a bird, or tie him up for thy handmaids? 
    25: Shall friends cut him in pieces, shall merchants divide him?
    26: Wilt thou fill nets with his skin, and the cabins of fishes with his head? 
    27: Lay thy hand upon him: remember the battle, and speak no more. 
    28: Behold his hope shall fail him, and in the sight of all he shall be cast down.

End of day 142.