Day 90:

Reading 1-Chronicles, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: Now the sons of Ruben the firstborn of Israel, (for he was his firstborn: but forasmuch as he defiled his father's bed, his first birthright was given to the sons of Joseph the son of Israel, and he was not accounted for the firstborn. 
    2: But of the race of Juda, who was the strongest among his brethren, came the princes: but the first birthright was accounted to Joseph.) 
    3: The sons then of Ruben the firstborn of Israel were Enoch, and Phallu, Esron, and Charmi. 
    4: The sons of Joel: Samaia his son, Gog his son, Semei his son, 
    5: Micha his son, Reia his son, Baal his son,
    6: Beera his son, whom Thelgathphalnasar king of the Assyrians carried away captive, and he was prince in the tribe of Ruben. 
    7: And his brethren, and all his kindred, when they were numbered by their families, had for princes Jehiel, and Zacharias. 
    8: And Bala the son of Azaz, the son of Samma, the son of Joel, dwelt in Aroer as far as Nebo, and Beelmeon. 
    9: And eastward he had his habitation as far as the entrance of the desert, and the river Euphrates. For they possessed a great number of cattle in the land of Galaad. 
    10: And in the days of Saul they fought against the Agarites, and slew them, and dwelt in their tents in their stead, in all the country, that looketh to the east of Galaad.
    11: And the children of Gad dwelt over against them in the land of Basan, as far as Selcha: 
    12: Johel the chief, and Saphan the second: and Janai, and Saphat in Basan. 
    13: And their brethren according to the houses of their kindreds, were Michael, and Mosollam, and Sebe, and Jorai, and Jacan, and Zie, and Heber, seven. 
    14: These were the sons of Abihail, the son of Hurl, the son of Jara, the son of Galaad, the son of Michael, the son of Jesisi, the son of Jeddo, the son of But. 
    15: And their brethren the sons of Abdiel, the son of Guni, chief of the house in their families,
    16: And they dwelt in Galaad, and in Basan and in the towns thereof, and in all the suburbs of Saron, unto the borders. 
    17: All these were numbered in the days of Joathan king of Juda, and in the days of Jeroboam king of Israel. 
    18: The sons of Ruben, and of Gad, and of the half tribe of Manasses, fighting men, bearing shields, and swords, and bending the bow, and trained up to battles, four and forty thousand seven hundred and threescore that went out to war. 
    19: They fought against the Agarites: but the Itureans, and Naphis, and Nodab, 
    20: Gave them help. And the Agarites were delivered into their hands, and all that were with them, because they called upon God in the battle: and he heard them, because they had put their faith in him.
    21: And they took all that they possessed, of camels fifty thousand, and of sheep two hundred and fifty thousand, and of asses two thousand, and of men a hundred thousand souls. 
    22: And many fell down slain: for it was the battle of the Lord. And they dwelt in their stead till the captivity. 
    23: And the children of the half tribe of Manasses possessed the land, from the borders of Basan unto Baal, Hermon, and Sanir, and mount Hermon, for their number was great. 
    24: And these were the heads of the house of their kindred, Epher, and Jesi, and Eliel, and Esriel, and Jeremia, and Odoia, and Jediel, most valiant and powerful men, and famous chiefs in their families. 
    25: But they forsook the God of their fathers, and went astray after the gods of the people of the land, whom God destroyed before them.
    26: And the God of Israel stirred up the spirit of Phul king of the Assyrians, and the spirit of Thelgathphalnasar king of Assur: and he carried away Ruben, and Gad, and the half tribe of Manasses, and brought them to Lahela, and to Habor, and to Ara, and to the river of Gozan, unto this day.

  Chapter 6.

    1: The sons of Levi were Gerson, Caath, and Merari. 
    2: The sons of Caath: Amram, Isaar, Hebron, and Oziel. 
    3: The children of Amram: Aaron, Moses, and Mary. The sons of Aaron: Nadab and Abiu, Eleazar and Ithamar. 
    4: Eleazar beget Phinees, and Phinees beget Abisue, 
    5: And Abisue beget Bocci, and Bocci begot Ozi.
    6: Ozi beget Zaraias, and Zaraias beget Maraioth. 
    7: And Maraioth beget Amarias, and Amarias beget Achitob. 
    8: Achitob beget Sadoc, and Sadoc begot Achimaas. 
    9: Achimaas beget Azarias, Azarias begot Johanan, 
    10: Johanan beget Azarias. This is he that executed the priestly office in the house which Solomon built in Jerusalem.
    11: And Azarias beget Amarias, and Amarias beget Achitob. 
    12: And Achitob beget Sadoc, and Sadoc beget Sellum, 
    13: Sellum beget Helcias, and Helcias beget Azarias, 
    14: Azarias beget Saraias, and Saraias beget Josedec. 
    15: Now Josedec went out, when the Lord carried away Juda, and Jerusalem, by the hands of Nabuchodonosor.
    16: So the sons of Levi were Gerson, Caath, and Merari. 
    17: And these are the names of the sons of Gerson: Lobni and Semei. 
    18: The sons of Caath: Amram, and Isaar, and Hebron, and Oziel. 
    19: The sons of Merari: Moholi and Musi. And these are the kindreds of Levi according to their families. 
    20: Of Gerson: Lobni his son, Jahath his son, Zamma his son,
    21: Joah his son, Addo his son, Zara his son, Jethrai his son. 
    22: The sons of Caath, Aminadab his son, Core his son, Asir his son, 
    23: Elcana his son, Abiasaph his son, Asir his son, 
    24: Thahath his son, Uriel his son, Ozias his son, Saul his son. 
    25: The sons of Elcana: Amasai, and Achimoth.
    26: And Elcana. The sons of Elcana: Sophai his son, Nahath his son, 
    27: Eliab his son, Jeroham his son, Elcana his son. 
    28: The sons of Samuel: the firstborn Vasseni, and Abia. 
    29: And the sons of Merari, Moholi: Lobni his son, Semei his son, Oza his son, 
    30: Sammaa his son, Haggia his son, Asaia his son.
    31: These are they, whom David set over the singing men of the house of the Lord, after that the ark was placed: 
    32: And they ministered before the tabernacle of the testimony, with singing, until Solomon built the house of the Lord in Jerusalem, and they stood according to their order in the ministry. 
    33: And these are they that stood with their sons, of the sons of Caath, Hemam a singer, the son of Joel, the son of Sammuel, 
    34: The son of Elcana, the son of Jeroham, the son of Eliel, the son of Thohu, 
    35: The son of Suph, the son of Elcana, the son of Mahath, the son of Amasai,
    36: The son of Elcana, the son of Johel, the son of Azarias, the son of Sophonias, 
    37: The son of Thahath, the son of Asir, the son or Abiasaph, the son of Core, 
    38: The son of Isaar, the son of Caath, the son of Levi, the son of Israel. 
    39: And his brother Asaph, who stood on his right hand, Asaph the son of Barachias, the son of Samaa. 
    40: The son of Michael, the son of Basaia, the son of Melchia.
    41: The son of Athanai, the son of Zara, the son of Adaia. 
    42: The son of Ethan, the son of Zamma, the son of Semei. 
    43: The son of Jeth, the son of Gerson, the son of Levi. 
    44: And the sons of Merari their brethren, on the left hand, Ethan the son of Cusi, the son of Abdi, the son of Meloch, 
    45: The son of Hasabia, the son of Amasai, the son of Helcias,
    46: The son of Amasai, the son of Boni, the son of Somer, 
    47: The son of Moholi, the son of Mud, the son of Merari, the son of Levi. 
    48: Their brethren also the Levites, who were appointed for all the ministry of the tabernacle of the house of the Lord. 
    49: But Aaron and his sons offered burnt offerings upon the altar of holocausts, and upon the altar of incense, for very work of the holy of holies: and to pray for Israel according to all that Moses the servant of God had commanded. 
    50: And these are the sons of Aaron: Eleazar his son, Phinees his son, Abisue his son,
    51: Bocci his son, Ozi his son, Zarahia his son, 
    52: Meraioth his son, Amarias his son, Achitob his son, 
    53: Sadoc his son, Achimaas his son. 
    54: And these are their dwelling places by the towns and confines, to wit, of the sons of Aaron, of the families of the Caathites: for they fell to them by lot. 
    55: And they gave them Hebron in the land of Juda, and the suburbs thereof round about:
    56: But the fields of the city, and the villages to Caleb son of Jephone. 
    57: And to the sons of Aaron they gave the cities for refuge Hebron, and Lobna, and the suburbs thereof, 
    58: And Jether and Esthemo, with their suburbs, and Helon, and Dabir with their suburbs: 
    59: Asan also, and Bethsames, with their suburbs. 
    60: And out of the tribe of Benjamin: Gabee and its suburbs, Almath with its suburbs, Anathoth also with its suburbs: all their cities throughout their families were thirteen.
    61: And to the sons of Caath that remained of their kindred they gave out of the half tribe of Manasses ten cities in possession. 
    62: And to the sons of Gerson by their families out of the tribe of Issachar, and out of the tribe of Aser, and out of the tribe of Nephtali, and out of the tribe of Manasses in Basan, thirteen cities. 
    63: And to the sons of Merari by their families out of the tribe of Ruben, and out of the tribe of Gad, and out of the tribe of Zabulon, they gave by lot twelve cities. 
    64: And the children of Israel gave to the Levites the cities, and their suburbs. 
    65: And they gave them by lot, out of the tribe of the sons of Juda, and out of the tribe of the sons of Simeon, and out of the tribe of the sons of Benjamin, these cities which they called by their names.
    66: And to them that were of the kindred of the sons of Caath, and the cities in their borders were of the tribe of Ephraim. 
    67: And they gave the cities of refuge Sichem with its suburbs in mount Ephraim, and Gazer with its suburbs, 
    68: Jecmaan also with its suburbs, and Beth-horon in like manner, 
    69: Helon also with its suburbs, and Gethremmon in like manner, 
    70: And out of the half tribe of Manasses, Aner and its suburbs, Baalam and its suburbs: to wit, to them that were left of the family of the sons of Caath.
    71: And to the sons of Gersom, out of the kindred of the half tribe of Manasses, Gaulon, in Basan, and its suburbs, and Astharoth with its suburbs. 
    72: Out of the tribe of Issachar, Cedes and its suburbs, and Dabereth with its suburbs; 
    73: Ramoth also and its suburbs, and Anem with its suburbs. 
    74: And out of the tribe of Aser: Masal with its suburbs, and Abdon in like manner; 
    75: Hucac also and its suburbs, and Rohol with its suburbs.
    76: And out of the tribe of Nephtali, Cedes in Galilee and its suburbs, Hamon with its suburbs, and Cariathaim, and its suburbs. 
    77: And to the sons of Merari that remained: out of the tribe of Zabulon, Remmono and its suburbs, and Thabor with its suburbs. 
    78: Beyond the Jordan also over against Jericho, on the east side of the Jordan, out of the tribe of Ruben, Bosor in the wilderness with its suburbs, and Jassa with its suburbs; 
    79: Cademoth also and its suburbs, and Mephaath with its suburbs; 
    80: Moreover also out of the tribe of Gad, Ramoth in Galaad and its suburbs, and Manaim with its suburbs;
    81: Hesebon also with its suburbs, and Jazer with its suburbs.

  Chapter 7.

    1: Now the sons of Issachar were Thola, and Phua, Jasub and Simeron, four. 
    2: The sons of Thola: Ozi and Raphaia, and Jeriel, and Jemai, and Jebsem, and Samuel, chiefs of the houses of their kindreds. Of the posterity of Thola were numbered in the days of David, two and twenty thousand six hundred most valiant men. 
    3: The sons of Ozi: Izrahia, of whom were born Michael, and Obadia, and Joel, and Jesia, five all great men. 
    4: And there were with them by their families and peoples, six and thirty thousand most valiant men ready for war: for they had many wives and children. 
    5: Their brethren also throughout all the house of Issachar, were numbered fourscore and seven thousand most valiant men for war.
    6: The sons of Benjamin were Bela, and Bechor, and Jadihel, three. 
    7: The sons of Bela: Esbon, and Ozi, and Ozial, and Jerimoth and Urai, five chiefs of their families, and most valiant warriors, and their number was twenty-two thousand and thirty-four. 
    8: And the sons of Bechor were Zamira, and Joas, and Eliezer, and Elioenai, and Amai, and Jerimoth, and Abia, and Anathoth, and Almath: all these were the sons of Bechor. 
    9: And they were numbered by the families, heads of their kindreds, most valiant men for war, twenty thousand and two hundred. 
    10: And the son of Jadihel: Balan. And the sons of Balan: Jehus and Benjamin and Aod, and Chanana, and Zethan and Tharsis, and Ahisahar.
    11: All these were sons of Jadihel, heads of their kindreds, most valiant men, seventeen thousand and two hundred fit to go out to war. 
    12: Sepham also and Hapham the sons of Hir: and Hasim the sons of Aher. 
    13: And the sons of Nephtali were Jasiel, and Guni, and Jezer, and Sellum, sons of Bala. 
    14: And the son of Manasses, Ezriel: and his concubine the Syrian bore Machir the father of Galaad. 
    15: And Machir took wives for his sons Happhim, and Saphan: and he had a sister named Maacha: the name of the second was Salphaad, and Salphaad had daughters.
    16: And Maacha the wife of Machir bore a son, and she called his name Phares: and the name of his brother was Sares: and his sons were Ulam and Recen. 
    17: And the son of Ulam, Baden. These are the sons of Galaad, the son of Machir the son of Manasses. 
    18: And his sister named Queen bore Goodlyman, and Abiezer, and Mohola. 
    19: And the sons of Semida were Ahiu, and Sechem, and Leci and Aniam. 
    20: And the sons of Ephraim were Suthala, Bared his son, Thahath his son, Elada his son, Thahath his son, and his son Zabad,
    21: And his son Suthala, and his son Ezer, and Elad: and the men of Geth born in the land slew them, because they came down to invade their possessions. 
    22: And Ephraim their father mourned many days, and his brethren came to comfort him. 
    23: And he went in to his wife: and she conceived and bore a son, and he called his name Beria, because he was born when it went evil with his house: 
    24: And his daughter was Sara, who built Bethoron, the nether and the upper, and Ozensara. 
    25: And Rapha was his son, and Reseph, and Thale, of whom was born Thaan,
    26: Who begot Laadan: and his son was Ammiud, who beget Elisama, 
    27: Of whom was born Nun, who had Josue for his son. 
    28: And their possessions and habitations were Bethel with her daughters, and eastward Noran, and westward Gazer and her daughters, Sichem also with her daughters, as far as Ass with her daughters. 
    29: And by the borders of the sons of Manasses Bethsan and her daughters, Thanach and her daughters, Mageddo and her daughters: Dor and her daughters: in these dwelt the children of Joseph, the son of Israel. 
    30: The children of Aser were Jemna, and Jesua, and Jessui, and Baria, and Sara their sister.
    31: And the sons of Baria: Haber, and Melchiel: he is the father of Barsaith. 
    32: And Heber beget Jephlat, and Somer, and Hotham, and Suaa their sister. 
    33: The sons of Jephlat: Phosech, and Chamaal, and Asoth: these are the sons of Jephlat. 
    34: And the sons of Somer: Ahi, and Roaga, and Haba, and Aram. 
    35: And the sons of Helem his brother: Supha, and Jemna, and Selles, and Amal.
    36: The sons of Supha: Sue, Hernapher, and Sual, and Beri, and Jamra. 
    37: Bosor and Hod, and Samma, and Salusa, and Jethran, and Bera. 
    38: The sons of Jether: Jephone, and Phaspha, and Ara. 
    39: And the sons of Olla: Aree, and Haniel, and Resia. 
    40: All these were sons of Aser, heads of their families, choice and most valiant captains of captains: and the number of them that were of the age that was fit for war, was six and twenty thousand.

  Chapter 8.

    1: Now Benjamin beget Bale his firstborn, Asbel the second, Ahara the third, 
    2: Nohaa the fourth, and Rapha the fifth. 
    3: And the sons of Bale were Addar, and Gera, and Abiud, 
    4: And Abisue, and Naamar, and Ahoe, 
    5: And Gera, and Sephuphan, and Huram.
    6: These are the sons of Ahod, heads of families that dwelt in Gabaa, who were removed into Mrtnahsth. 
    7: And Naaman, and Achia, and Gera he removed them, and beget Oza, and Ahiud. 
    8: And Saharim begot in the land of Moab, after he sent away Husim and Bara his wives. 
    9: And he beget of Hodes his wife Jobab, and Sebia, and Mesa, and Molchom, 
    10: And Jehus and Sechia, and Marma. These were his sons heads of their families.
    11: And Mehusim beget Abitob, and Elphaal. 
    12: And the sons of Elphaal were Heber, and Misaam, and Samad: who built One, and Led, and its daughters. 
    13: And Baria, and Sama were heads of their kindreds that dwelt in Aialon: these drove away the inhabitants of Geth. 
    14: And Ahio, and Sesac, and Jerimoth, 
    15: And Zabadia, and Arod, and Heder,
    16: And Michael, and Jespha, and Joha, the sons of Baria. 
    17: And Zabadia, and Mosollam, and Hezeci, and Heber, 
    18: And Jesamari, and Jezlia, and Jobab, sons of Elphaal, 
    19: And Jacim, and Zechri, and Zabdi, 
    20: And Elioenai, and Selethai, and Elial,
    21: And Adaia, and Baraia, and Samareth, the sons of Semei. 
    22: And Jespham, and Heber, and Eliel, 
    23: And Abdon, and Zechri, and Hanan, 
    24: And Hanania, and Elam, and Anathothia. 
    25: And Jephdaia, and Phanuel the sons of Sesac.
    26: And Samsari, and Sohoria and Otholia, 
    27: And Jersia, and Elia, and Zechri, the sons of Jeroham. 
    28: These were the chief fathers, and heads of their families who dwelt in Jerusalem. 
    29: And at Gabaon dwelt Abigabaon, and the name of his wife was Maacha: 
    30: And his firstborn son Abdon, and Sur, and Cia, and Baal, and Nadab,
    31: And Gedor, and Ahio, and Zacher, and Macelloth: 
    32: And Macelloth beget Samaa: and they dwelt over against their brethren in Jerusalem with their brethren. 
    33: And Ner beget Cia, and Cia beget Saul. And Saul begot Jonathan and Melchisua, and Abinadab, and Esbaal. 
    34: And the son of Jonathan was Meribbaal: and Meribbaal begot Micha. 
    35: And the sons of Micha were Phithon, and Melech, and Tharaa, and Ahaz.
    36: And Ahaz beget Joada: and Joada beget Alamath, and Azmoth, and Zamri: and Zamri beget Mesa, 
    37: And Mesa beget Banaa, whose son was Rapha, of whom was born Elasa, who beget Asel. 
    38: And Asel had six sons whose names were Ezricam, Bochru, Ismahel, Saria, Obdia, and Hanan. All these were the sons of Asel. 
    39: And the sons of Esec, his brother, were Ulam the firstborn, and Jehus the second, and Eliphelet the third. 
    40: And the sons of Ulam were most valiant men, and archers of great strength: and they had many sons and grandsons, even to a hundred and fifty. All these were children of Benjamin.

End of day 90.