Day 310:

Reading Acts, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: Now there were in the church which was at Antioch, prophets and doctors, among whom was Barnabas, and Simon who was called Niger, and Lucius of Cyrene, and Manahen, who was the foster brother of Herod the tetrarch, and Saul. 
    2: And as they were ministering to the Lord, and fasting, the Holy Ghost said to them: Separate me Saul and Barnabas, for the work whereunto I have taken them. 
    3: Then they, fasting and praying, and imposing their hands upon them, sent them away. 
    4: So they being sent by the Holy Ghost, went to Seleucia: and from thence they sailed to Cyprus. 
    5: And when they were come to Salamina, they preached the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews. And they had John also in the ministry.
    6: And when they had gone through the whole island, as far as Paphos, they found a certain man, a magician, a false prophet, a Jew, whose name was Bar-jesu: 
    7: Who was with the proconsul Sergius Paulus, a prudent man. He sending for Barnabas and Saul, desired to hear the word of God. 
    8: But Elymas the magician (for so his name is interpreted) withstood them, seeking to turn away the proconsul from the faith. 
    9: Then Saul, otherwise Paul, filled with the Holy Ghost, looking upon him, 
    10: Said: O full of all guile, and of all deceit, child of the devil, enemy of all justice, thou ceasest not to pervert the right ways of the Lord.
    11: And now behold, the hand of the Lord is upon thee, and thou shalt be blind, not seeing the sun for a time. And immediately there fell a mist and darkness upon him, and going about, he sought some one to lead him by the hand. 
    12: Then the proconsul, when he had seen what was done, believed, admiring at the doctrine of the Lord. 
    13: Now when Paul and they that were with him had sailed from Paphos, they came to Perge in Pamphylia. And John departing from them, returned to Jerusalem. 
    14: But they passing through Perge, came to Antioch in Pisidia: and entering into the synagogue on the sabbath day, they sat down. 
    15: And after the reading of the law and the prophets, the rulers of the synagogue sent to them, saying: Ye men, brethren, if you have any word of exhortation to make to the people, speak.
    16: Then Paul rising up, and with his hand bespeaking silence, said: Ye men of Israel, and you that fear God, give ear. 
    17: The God of the people of Israel chose our fathers, and exalted the people when they were sojourners in the land of Egypt, and with an high arm brought them out from thence, 
    18: And for the space of forty years endured their manners in the desert. 
    19: And destroying seven nations in the land of Chanaan, divided their land among them, by lot, 
    20: As it were, after four hundred and fifty years: and after these things, he gave unto them judges, until Samuel the prophet.
    21: And after that they desired a king: and God gave them Saul the son of Cis, a man of the tribe of Benjamin, forty years. 
    22: And when he had removed him, he raised them up David to be king: to whom giving testimony, he said: I have found David, the son of Jesse, a man according to my own heart, who shall do all my wills. 
    23: Of this man's seed God according to his promise, hath raised up to Israel a Saviour, Jesus: 
    24: John first preaching, before his coming, the baptism of penance to all the people of Israel. 
    25: And when John was fulfilling his course, he said: I am not he, whom you think me to be: but behold, there cometh one after me, whose shoes of his feet I am not worthy to loose.
    26: Men, brethren, children of the stock of Abraham, and whosoever among you fear God, to you the word of this salvation is sent. 
    27: For they that inhabited Jerusalem, and the rulers thereof, not knowing him, nor the voices of the prophets, which are read every sabbath, judging him have fulfilled them. 
    28: And finding no cause of death in him, they desired of Pilate, that they might kill him. 
    29: And when they had fulfilled all things that were written of him, taking him down from the tree, they laid him in a sepulchre. 
    30: But God raised him up from the dead the third day:
    31: Who was seen for many days, by them who came up with him from Galilee to Jerusalem, who to this present are his witnesses to the people. 
    32: And we declare unto you, that the promise which was made to our fathers, 
    33: This same God hath fulfilled to our children, raising up Jesus, as in the second psalm also is written: Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee. 
    34: And to shew that he raised him up from the dead, not to return now any more to corruption, he said thus: I will give you the holy things of David faithful. 
    35: And therefore, in another place also, he saith: Thou shalt not suffer thy holy one to see corruption.
    36: For David, when he had served in his generation, according to the will of God, slept: and was laid unto his fathers, and saw corruption. 
    37: But he whom God hath raised from the dead, saw no corruption. 
    38: Be it known therefore to you, men, brethren, that through him forgiveness of sins is preached to you: and from all the things, from which you could not be justified by the law of Moses. 
    39: In him every one that believeth, is justified. 
    40: Beware, therefore, lest that come upon you which is spoken in the prophets:
    41: Behold, ye despisers, and wonder, and perish: for I work a work in your days, a work which you will not believe, if any man shall tell it you. 
    42: And as they went out, they desired them, that on the next sabbath, they would speak unto them these words. 
    43: And when the synagogue was broken up, many of the Jews, and of the strangers who served God, followed Paul and Barnabas: who speaking to them, persuaded them to continue in the grace of God. 
    44: But the next sabbath day, the whole city almost came together, to hear the word of God. 
    45: And the Jews seeing the multitudes, were filled with envy, and contradicted those things which were said by Paul, blaspheming.
    46: Then Paul and Barnabas said boldly: To you it behoved us first to speak the word of God: but because you reject it, and judge yourselves unworthy of eternal life, behold we turn to the Gentiles. 
    47: For so the Lord hath commanded us: I have set thee to be the light of the Gentiles; that thou mayest be for salvation unto the utmost part of the earth. 
    48: And the Gentiles hearing it, were glad, and glorified the word of the Lord: and as many as were ordained to life everlasting, believed. 
    49: And the word of the Lord was published throughout the whole country. 
    50: But the Jews stirred up religious and honourable women, and the chief men of the city, and raised persecution against Paul and Barnabas: and cast them out of their coasts.
    51: But they, shaking off the dust of their feet against them, came to Iconium. 
    52: And the disciples were filled with joy and with the Holy Ghost.

  Chapter 14.

    1: And it came to pass in Iconium, that they entered together into the synagogue of the Jews, and so spoke that a very great multitude both of the Jews and of the Greeks did believe. 
    2: But the unbelieving Jews stirred up and incensed the minds of the Gentiles against the brethren. 
    3: A long time therefore they abode there, dealing confidently in the Lord, who gave testimony to the word of his grace, granting signs and wonders to be done by their hands. 
    4: And the multitude of the city was divided; and some of them indeed held with the Jews, but some with the apostles. 
    5: And when there was an assault made by the Gentiles and the Jews with their rulers, to use them contumeliously, and to stone them:
    6: They understanding it, fled to Lystra, and Derbe, cities of Lycaonia, and to the whole country round about, and were there preaching the gospel. 
    7: And there sat a certain man at Lystra, impotent in his feet, a cripple from his mother's womb, who never had walked. 
    8: This same heard Paul speaking. Who looking upon him, and seeing that he had faith to be healed, 
    9: Said with a loud voice: Stand upright on thy feet. And he leaped up, and walked. 
    10: And when the multitudes had seen what Paul had done, they lifted up their voice in the Lycaonian tongue, saying: The gods are come down to us in the likeness of men;
    11: And they called Barnabas, Jupiter: but Paul, Mercury; because he was chief speaker. 
    12: The priest also of Jupiter that was before the city, bringing oxen and garlands before the gate, would have offered sacrifice with the people. 
    13: Which, when the apostles Barnabas and Paul had heard, rending their clothes, they leaped out among the people, crying, 
    14: And saying: Ye men, why do ye these things? We also are mortals, men like unto you, preaching to you to be converted from these vain things, to the living God, who made the heaven, and the earth, and the sea, and all things that are in them: 
    15: Who in times past suffered all nations to walk in their own ways.
    16: Nevertheless he left not himself without testimony, doing good from heaven, giving rains and fruitful seasons, filling our hearts with food and gladness. 
    17: And speaking these things, they scarce restrained the people from sacrificing to them. 
    18: Now there came thither certain Jews from Antioch, and Iconium: and persuading the multitude, and stoning Paul, drew him out of the city, thinking him to be dead. 
    19: But as the disciples stood round about him, he rose up and entered into the city, and the next day he departed with Barnabas to Derbe. 
    20: And when they had preached the gospel to that city, and had taught many, they returned again to Lystra, and to Iconium, and to Antioch:
    21: Confirming the souls of the disciples, and exhorting them to continue in the faith: and that through many tribulations we must enter into the kingdom of God. 
    22: And when they had ordained to them priests in every church, and had prayed with fasting, they commended them to the Lord, in whom they believed. 
    23: And passing through Pisidia, they came into Pamphylia. 
    24: And having spoken the word of the Lord in Perge, they went down into Attalia: 
    25: And thence they sailed to Antioch, from whence they had been delivered to the grace of God, unto the work which they accomplished.
    26: And when they were come, and had assembled the church, they related what great things God had done with them, and how he had opened the door of faith to the Gentiles. 
    27: And they abode no small time with the disciples.

  Chapter 15.

    1: And some coming down from Judea, taught the brethren: That except you be circumcised after the manner of Moses, you cannot be saved. 
    2: And when Paul and Barnabas had no small contest with them, they determined that Paul and Barnabas, and certain others of the other side, should go up to the apostles and priests to Jerusalem about this question. 
    3: They therefore being brought on their way by the church, passed through Phenice, and Samaria, relating the conversion of the Gentiles; and they caused great joy to all the brethren. 
    4: And when they were come to Jerusalem, they were received by the church, and by the apostles and ancients, declaring how great things God had done with them. 
    5: But there arose some of the sect of the Pharisees that believed, saying: They must be circumcised, and be commanded to observe the law of Moses.
    6: And the apostles and ancients assembled to consider of this matter. 
    7: And when there had been much disputing, Peter, rising up, said to them: Men, brethren, you know, that in former days God made choice among us, that by my mouth the Gentiles should hear the word of the gospel, and believe. 
    8: And God, who knoweth the hearts, gave testimony, giving unto them the Holy Ghost, as well as to us; 
    9: And put no difference between us and them, purifying their hearts by faith. 
    10: Now therefore, why tempt you God to put a yoke upon the necks of the disciples, which neither our fathers nor we have been able to bear?
    11: But by the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, we believe to be saved, in like manner as they also. 
    12: And all the multitude held their peace; and they heard Barnabas and Paul telling what great signs and wonders God had wrought among the Gentiles by them. 
    13: And after they had held their peace, James answered, saying: Men, brethren, hear me. 
    14: Simon hath related how God first visited to take of the Gentiles a people to his name. 
    15: And to this agree the words of the prophets, as it is written:
    16: After these things I will return, and will rebuild the tabernacle of David, which is fallen down; and the ruins thereof I will rebuild, and I will set it up: 
    17: That the residue of men may seek after the Lord, and all nations upon whom my name is invoked, saith the Lord, who doth these things. 
    18: To the Lord was his own work known from the beginning of the world. 
    19: For which cause I judge that they, who from among the Gentiles are converted to God, are not to be disquieted. 
    20: But that we write unto them, that they refrain themselves from the pollutions of idols, and from fornication, and from things strangled, and from blood.
    21: For Moses of old time hath in every city them that preach him in the synagogues, where he is read every sabbath. 
    22: Then it pleased the apostles and ancients, with the whole church, to choose men of their own company, and to send to Antioch, with Paul and Barnabas, namely, Judas, who was surnamed Barsabas, and Silas, chief men among the brethren. 
    23: Writing by their hands: The apostles and ancients, brethren, to the brethren of the Gentiles that are at Antioch, and in Syria and Cilicia, greeting. 
    24: Forasmuch as we have heard, that some going out from us have troubled you with words, subverting your souls; to whom we gave no commandment: 
    25: It hath seemed good to us, being assembled together, to choose out men, and to send them unto you, with our well beloved Barnabas and Paul:
    26: Men that have given their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
    27: We have sent therefore Judas and Silas, who themselves also will, by word of mouth, tell you the same things. 
    28: For it hath seemed good to the Holy Ghost and to us, to lay no further burden upon you than these necessary things: 
    29: That you abstain from things sacrificed to idols, and from blood, and from things strangled, and from fornication; from which things keeping yourselves, you shall do well. Fare ye well. 
    30: They therefore being dismissed, went down to Antioch; and gathering together the multitude, delivered the epistle.
    31: Which when they had read, they rejoiced for the consolation. 
    32: But Judas and Silas, being prophets also themselves, with many words comforted the brethren, and confirmed them. 
    33: And after they had spent some time there, they were let go with peace by the brethren, unto them that had sent them. 
    34: But it seemed good unto Silas to remain there; and Judas alone departed to Jerusalem. 
    35: And Paul and Barnabas continued at Antioch, teaching and preaching, with many others, the word of the Lord.
    36: And after some days, Paul said to Barnabas: Let us return and visit our brethren in all the cities wherein we have preached the word of the Lord, to see how they do. 
    37: And Barnabas would have taken with them John also, that was surnamed Mark; 
    38: But Paul desired that he (as having departed from them out of Pamphylia, and not gone with them to the work) might not be received. 
    39: And there arose a dissension, so that they departed one from another; and Barnabas indeed taking Mark, sailed to Cyprus. 
    40: But Paul choosing Silas, departed, being delivered by the brethren to the grace of God.
    41: And he went through Syria and Cilicia, confirming the churches, commanding them to keep the precepts of the apostles and the ancients.

  Chapter 16.

    1: And he came to Derbe and Lystra. And behold, there was a certain disciple there named Timothy, the son of a Jewish woman that believed; but his father was a Gentile. 
    2: To this man the brethren that were in Lystra and Iconium, gave a good testimony. 
    3: Him Paul would have to go along with him: and taking him he circumcised him, because of the Jews who were in those places. For they all knew that his father was a Gentile. 
    4: And as they passed through the cities, they delivered unto them the decrees for to keep, that were decreed by the apostles and ancients who were at Jerusalem. 
    5: And the churches were confirmed in faith, and increased in number daily.
    6: And when they had passed through Phrygia, and the country of Galatia, they were forbidden by the Holy Ghost to preach the word in Asia. 
    7: And when they were come into Mysia, they attempted to go into Bythynia, and the Spirit of Jesus suffered them not. 
    8: And when they had passed through Mysia, they went down to Troas. 
    9: And a vision was shewed to Paul in the night, which was a man of Macedonia standing and beseeching him, and saying: Pass over into Macedonia, and help us. 
    10: And as soon as he had seen the vision, immediately we sought to go into Macedonia, being assured that God had called us to preach the gospel to them.
    11: And sailing from Troas, we came with a straight course to Samothracia, and the day following to Neapolis; 
    12: And from thence to Philippi, which is the chief city of part of Macedonia, a colony. And we were in this city some days conferring together. 
    13: And upon the sabbath day, we went forth without the gate by a river side, where it seemed that there was prayer; and sitting down, we spoke to the women that were assembled. 
    14: And a certain woman named Lydia, a seller of purple, of the city of Thyatira, one that worshipped God, did hear: whose heart the Lord opened to attend to those things which were said by Paul. 
    15: And when she was baptized, and her household, she besought us, saying: If you have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come into my house, and abide there. And she constrained us.
    16: And it came to pass, as we went to prayer, a certain girl, having a pythonical spirit, met us, who brought to her masters much gain by divining. 
    17: This same following Paul and us, cried out, saying: These men are the servants of the most high God, who preach unto you the way of salvation. 
    18: And this she did many days. But Paul being grieved, turned, and said to the spirit: I command thee, in the name of Jesus Christ, to go out from her. And he went out the same hour. 
    19: But her masters, seeing that the hope of their gain was gone, apprehending Paul and Silas, brought them into the marketplace to the rulers. 
    20: And presenting them to the magistrates, they said: These men disturb our city, being Jews;
    21: And preach a fashion which it is not lawful for us to receive nor observe, being Romans. 
    22: And the people ran together against them; and the magistrates rending off their clothes, commanded them to be beaten with rods. 
    23: And when they had laid many stripes upon them, they cast them into prison, charging the gaoler to keep them diligently. 
    24: Who having received such a charge, thrust them into the inner prison, and made their feet fast in the stocks. 
    25: And at midnight, Paul and Silas praying, praised God. And they that were in prison, heard them.
    26: And suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken. And immediately all the doors were opened, and the bands of all were loosed. 
    27: And the keeper of the prison, awaking out of his sleep, and seeing the doors of the prison open, drawing his sword, would have killed himself, supposing that the prisoners had been fled. 
    28: But Paul cried with a loud voice, saying: Do thyself no harm, for we all are here. 
    29: Then calling for a light, he went in, and trembling, fell down at the feet of Paul and Silas. 
    30: And bringing them out, he said: Masters, what must I do, that I may be saved?
    31: But they said: Believe in the Lord Jesus, and thou shalt be saved, and thy house. 
    32: And they preached the word of the Lord to him and to all that were in his house. 
    33: And he, taking them the same hour of the night, washed their stripes, and himself was baptized, and all his house immediately. 
    34: And when he had brought them into his own house, he laid the table for them, and rejoiced with all his house, believing God. 
    35: And when the day was come, the magistrates sent the serjeants, saying, Let those men go.
    36: And the keeper of the prison told these words to Paul: The magistrates have sent to let you go; now therefore depart, and go in peace. 
    37: But Paul said to them: They have beaten us publicly, uncondemned, men that are Romans, and have cast us into prison: and now do they thrust us out privately? Not so; but let them come, 
    38: And let us out themselves. And the serjeants told these words to the magistrates. And they were afraid, hearing that they were Romans. 
    39: And coming, they besought them; and bringing them out, they desired them to depart out of the city. 
    40: And they went out of the prison, and entered into the house of Lydia; and having seen the brethren, they comforted them, and departed.

End of day 310.