Day 159:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['61', '62', '63', '64']:

  Chapter 61.

    1: Unto the end, for Idithun, a psalm of David. 
    2: Shall not my soul be subject to God? for from him is my salvation. 
    3: For he is my God and my saviour: he is my protector, I shall be moved no more. 
    4: How long do you rush in upon a man? you all kill, as if you were thrusting down a leaning wall, and a tottering fence. 
    5: But they have thought to cast away my price; I ran in thirst: they blessed with their mouth, but cursed with their heart.
    6: But be thou, O my soul, subject to God: for from him is my patience. 
    7: For he is my God and my saviour: he is my helper, I shall not be moved. 
    8: In God is my salvation and my glory: he is the God of my help, and my hope is in God. 
    9: Trust in him, all ye congregation of people: pour out your hearts before him. God is our helper for ever. 
    10: But vain are the sons of men, the sons of men are liars in the balances: that by vanity they may together deceive.
    11: Trust not in iniquity, and cover not robberies: if riches abound, set not your heart upon them. 
    12: God hath spoken once, these two things have I heard, that power belongeth to God, 
    13: And mercy to thee, O Lord; for thou wilt render to every man according to his works.

  Chapter 62.

    1: A psalm of David when he was in the desert of Edom. 
    2: O God, my God, to thee do I watch at break of day. For thee my soul hath thirsted; for thee my flesh, O how many ways! 
    3: In a desert land, and where there is no way, and no water: so in the sanctuary have I come before thee, to see thy power and thy glory. 
    4: For thy mercy is better than lives: thee my lips shall praise. 
    5: Thus will I bless thee all my life long: and in thy name I will lift up my hands.
    6: Let my soul be filled as with marrow and fatness: and my mouth shall praise thee with joyful lips. 
    7: If I have remembered thee upon my bed, I will meditate on thee in the morning: 
    8: Because thou hast been my helper. And I will rejoice under the covert of thy wings: 
    9: My soul hath stuck close to thee: thy right hand hath received me. 
    10: But they have sought my soul in vain, they shall go into the lower parts of the earth:
    11: They shall be delivered into the hands of the sword, they shall be the portions of foxes. 
    12: But the king shall rejoice in God, all they shall be praised that swear by him: because the mouth is stopped of them that speak wicked things.

  Chapter 63.

    1: Unto the end, a psalm for David. 
    2: Hear, O God, my prayer, when I make supplication to thee: deliver my soul from the fear of the enemy. 
    3: Thou hast protected me from the assembly of the malignant; from the multitude of the workers of iniquity. 
    4: For they have whetted their tongues like a sword; they have bent their bow a bitter thing, 
    5: To shoot in secret the undefiled.
    6: They will shoot at him on a sudden, and will not fear: they are resolute in wickedness. They have talked of hiding snares; they have said: Who shall see them? 
    7: They have searched after iniquities: they have failed in their search. Man shall come to a deep heart: 
    8: And God shall be exalted. The arrows of children are their wounds: 
    9: And their tongues against them are made weak. All that saw them were troubled; 
    10: And every man was afraid. And they declared the works of God: and understood his doings.
    11: The just shall rejoice in the Lord, and shall hope in him: and all the upright in heart shall be praised.

  Chapter 64.

    1: To the end, a psalm of David. The canticle of Jeremias and Ezechiel to the people of the captivity, when they began to go out. 
    2: A Hymn, O God, becometh thee in Sion: and a vow shall be paid to thee in Jerusalem. 
    3: O hear my prayer: all flesh shall come to thee. 
    4: The words of the wicked have prevailed over us: and thou wilt pardon our transgressions. 
    5: Blessed is he whom thou hast chosen and taken to thee: he shall dwell in thy courts. We shall be filled with the good things of thy house; holy is thy temple,
    6: Wonderful in justice. Hear us, O God our saviour, who art the hope of all the ends of the earth, and in the sea afar off. 
    7: Thou who preparest the mountains by thy strength, being girded with power: 
    8: Who troublest the depth of the sea, the noise of its waves. The Gentiles shall be troubled, 
    9: And they that dwell in the uttermost borders shall be afraid at thy signs: thou shalt make the outgoings of the morning and of the evening to be joyful. 
    10: Thou hast visited the earth, and hast plentifully watered it; thou hast many ways enriched it. The river of God is filled with water, thou hast prepared their food: for so is its preparation.
    11: Fill up plentifully the streams thereof, multiply its fruits; it shall spring up and rejoice in its showers. 
    12: Thou shalt bless the crown of the year of thy goodness: and thy fields shall be filled with plenty. 
    13: The beautiful places of the wilderness shall grow fat: and the hills shall be girded about with joy, 
    14: The rams of the flock are clothed, and the vales shall abound with corn: they shall shout, yea they shall sing a hymn.

End of day 159.