Day 215:

Reading Isaiah, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: At the first time the land of Zabulon, and the land of Nephtali was lightly touched: and at the last the way of the sea beyond the Jordan of the Galilee of the Gentiles was heavily loaded. 
    2: The people that walked in darkness, have seen a great light: to them that dwelt in the region of the shadow of death, light is risen. 
    3: Thou hast multiplied the nation, and hast not increased the joy. They shall rejoice before thee, as they that rejoice in the harvest, as conquerors rejoice after taking a prey, when they divide the spoils. 
    4: For the yoke of their burden, and the rod of their shoulder, and the sceptre of their oppressor thou hast overcome, as in the day of Median. 
    5: For every violent taking of spoils, with tumult, and garment mingled with blood, shall be burnt, and be fuel for the fire.
    6: For a CHILD IS BORN to us, and a son is given to us, and the government is upon his shoulder: and his name shall be called, Wonderful, Counsellor, God the Mighty, the Father of the world to come, the Prince of Peace. 
    7: His empire shall be multiplied, and there shall be no end of peace: he shall sit upon the throne of David, and upon his kingdom; to establish it and strengthen it with judgment and with justice, from henceforth and for ever: the zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this. 
    8: The Lord sent a word into Jacob, and it hath lighted upon Israel. 
    9: And all the people of Ephraim shall know, and the inhabitants of Samaria that say in the pride and haughtiness of their heart: 
    10: The bricks are fallen down, but we will build with square stones: they have cut down the sycamores, but we will change them for cedars.
    11: And the Lord shall set up the enemies of Rasin over him, and shall bring on his enemies in a crowd: 
    12: The Syrians from the east, and the Philistines from the west: and they shall devour Israel with open mouth, For all this his indignation is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still. 
    13: And the people are not returned to him who hath struck them, and have not sought after the Lord of hosts. 
    14: And the Lord shall destroy out of Israel the head and the tail, him that bendeth down, and him that holdeth back, in one day. 
    15: The aged and honourable, he is the head: and the prophet that teacheth lies, he is the tail.
    16: And they that call this people blessed, shall cause them to err: and they that are called blessed, shall be thrown down headlong. 
    17: Therefore the Lord shall have no joy in their young men: neither shall he have mercy on their fatherless, and widows: for every one is a hypocrite and wicked, and every mouth hath spoken folly. For all this his indignation is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still. 
    18: For wickedness is kindled as a fire, it shall devour the brier and the thorn: and shall kindle in the thicket of the forest, and it shall be wrapped up in smoke ascending on high. 
    19: By the wrath of the Lord of hosts the land is troubled, and the people shall be as fuel for the fire: no man shall spare his brother. 
    20: And he shall turn to the right hand, and shall be hungry: and shall eat on the left hand, and shall not be filled: every one shall eat the flesh of his own arm: Manasses Ephraim, and Ephraim Manasses, and they together shall be against Juda.
    21: After all these things his indignation is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.

  Chapter 10.

    1: Woe to them that make wicked laws: and when they write, write injustice: 
    2: To oppress the poor in judgment, and do violence to the cause of the humble of my people: that widows might be their prey, and that they might rob the fatherless. 
    3: What will you do in the day of visitation, and of the calamity which cometh from afar? to whom will ye flee for help? and where will ye leave your glory? 
    4: That you be not bowed down under the bond, and fall with the slain? In all these things his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still. 
    5: Woe to the Assyrian, he is the rod and the staff of my anger, and my indignation is in their hands.
    6: I will send him to a deceitful nation, and I will give him a charge against the people of my wrath, to take away the spoils, and to lay hold on the prey, and to tread them down like the mire of the streets. 
    7: But he shall not take it so, and his heart shall not think so: but his heart shall be set to destroy, and to cut off nations not a few. 
    8: For he shall say: 
    9: Are not my princes as so many kings? is not Calano as Charcamis: and Emath as Arphad? is not Samaria as Damascus? 
    10: As my hand hath found the kingdoms of the idol, so also their idols of Jerusalem, and of Samaria.
    11: Shall I not, as I have done to Samaria and her idols, so do to Jerusalem and her idols? 
    12: And it shall come to pass, that when the Lord shall have performed all his works in mount Sion, and in Jerusalem, I will visit the fruit of the proud heart of the king of Assyria, and the glory of the haughtiness of his eyes. 
    13: For he hath said: By the strength of my own hand I have done it, and by my own wisdom I have understood: and I have removed the bounds of the people, and have taken the spoils of the princes, and as a mighty man hath pulled down them that sat on high. 
    14: And my hand hath found the strength of the people as a nest; and as eggs are gathered, that are left, so have I gathered all the earth: and there was none that moved the wing, or opened the mouth, or made the least noise. 
    15: Shall the axe boast itself against him that cutteth with it? or shall the saw exalt itself against him by whom it is drawn? as if a rod should lift itself up against him that lifteth it up, and a staff exalt itself, which is but wood.
    16: Therefore the sovereign Lord, the Lord of hosts, shall send leanness among his fat ones: and under his glory shall be kindled a burning, as it were the burning of a fire. 
    17: And the light of Israel shall be as a fire, and the Holy One thereof as a flame: and his thorns and his briers shall be set on fire, and shall be devoured in one day. 
    18: And the glory of his forest, and of his beautiful hill, shall be consumed from the soul even to the flesh, and he shall run away through fear. 
    19: And they that remain of the trees of his forest shall be so few, that they shall easily be numbered, and a child shall write them down. 
    20: And it shall come to pass in that day, that the remnant of Israel, and they that shall escape of the house of Jacob, shall lean no more upon him that striketh them: but they shall lean upon the Lord the Holy One of Israel, in truth.
    21: The remnant shall be converted, the remnant, I say, of Jacob, to the mighty God. 
    22: For if thy people, O Israel, shall be as the sand of the sea, a remnant of them shall be converted, the consumption abridged shall overflow with justice. 
    23: For the Lord God of hosts shall make a consumption, and an abridgment in the midst of all the land. 
    24: Therefore, thus saith the Lord the God of hosts: O my people that dwellest in Sion, be not afraid of the Assyrian: he shall strike thee with his rod, and he shall lift up his staff over thee in the way of Egypt. 
    25: For yet a little and a very little while, and my indignation shall cease, and my wrath shall be upon their wickedness.
    26: And the Lord of hosts shall raise up a scourge against him, according to the slaughter of Madian in the rock of Oreb, and his rod over the sea, and he shall lift it up in the way of Egypt. 
    27: And it shall come to pass in that day, that his burden shall be taken away from off thy shoulder, and his yoke from off thy neck, and the yoke shall putrify at the presence of the oil. 
    28: He shall come into Aiath, he shall pass into Magron: at Machmas he shall lay up his carriages. 
    29: They have passed in haste, Gaba is our lodging: Rama was astonished, Gabaath of Saul fled away. 
    30: Lift up thy voice, O daughter of Gallim, attend, O Laisa, poor Anathoth.
    31: Medemena is removed: ye inhabitants of Gabim, take courage. 
    32: It is yet day enough, to remain in Nobe: he shall shake his hand against the mountain of the daughter of Sion, the hill of Jerusalem. 
    33: Behold the sovereign Lord of hosts shall break the earthen vessel with terror, and the tall of stature shall be cut down, and the lofty shall be humbled. 
    34: And the thickets of the forest shall be cut down with iron, and Libanus with its high ones shall fall.

  Chapter 11.

    1: And there shall come forth a rod out of the root of Jesse, and a flower shall rise up out of his root. 
    2: And the spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him: the spirit of wisdom, and of understanding, the spirit of counsel, and of fortitude, the spirit of knowledge, and of godliness. 
    3: And he shall be filled with the spirit of the fear of the Lord. He shall not judge according to the sight of the eyes, nor reprove according to the hearing of the ears. 
    4: But he shall judge the poor with justice, and shall reprove with equity for the meek of the earth: land he shall strike the earth with the rod of his mouth, and with the breath of his lips he shall slay the wicked. 
    5: And justice shall be the girdle of his loins: and faith the girdle of his reins.
    6: The wolf shall dwell with the lamb: and the leopard shall lie down with the kid: the calf and the lion, and the sheep shall abide together, and a little child shall lead them. 
    7: The calf and the bear shall feed: their young ones shall rest together: and the lion shall eat straw like the ox. 
    8: And the sucking child shall play on the hole of the asp: and the weaned child shall thrust his hand into the den of the basilisk. 
    9: They shall not hurt, nor shall they kill in all my holy mountain, for the earth is filled with the knowledge of the Lord, as the covering waters of the sea. 
    10: In that day the root of Jesse, who standeth for an ensign of the people, him the Gentiles shall beseech, and his sepulchre shall be glorious.
    11: And it shall come to pass in that day, that the Lord shall set his hand the second time to possess the remnant of his people, which shall be left from the Assyrians, and from Egypt, and from Phetros, and from Ethiopia, and from Elam, and from Sennaar, and from Emath, and from the islands of the sea. 
    12: And he shall set up a standard unto the nations, and shall assemble the fugitives of Israel, and shall gather together the dispersed of Juda from the four quarters of the earth. 
    13: And the envy of Ephraim shall be taken away, and the enemies of Juda shall perish: Ephraim shall not envy Juda, and Juda shall not fight against Ephraim. 
    14: But they shall fly upon the shoulders of the Philistines by the sea, they together shall spoil the children of the east: Edom, and Moab shall be under the rule of their hand, and the children of Ammon shall be obedient. 
    15: And the Lord shall lay waste the tongue of the sea of Egypt, and shall lift up his hand over the river in the strength of his spirit: and he shall strike it in the seven streams, so that men may pass through it in their shoes.
    16: And there shall be a highway for the remnant of my people, which shall be left from the Assyrians: as there was for Israel in the day that he came up out of the land of Egypt.

  Chapter 12.

    1: And thou shalt say in that day: I will give thanks to thee, O Lord, for thou wast angry with me: thy wrath is turned away, and thou hast comforted me. 
    2: Behold, God is my saviour, I will deal confidently, and will not fear: O because the Lord is my strength, and my praise, and he is become my salvation. 
    3: You shall draw waters with joy out of the saviour's fountains: 
    4: And you shall say in that day: Praise ye the Lord, and call upon his name: make his works known among the people: remember that his name is high. 
    5: Sing ye to the Lord, for he hath done great things: shew this forth in all the earth.
    6: Rejoice, and praise, O thou habitation of Sion: for great is he that is in the midst of thee, the Holy One of Israel.

End of day 215.