Day 219:

Reading Isaiah, chapters ['25', '26', '27', '28']:

  Chapter 25.

    1: O Lord, thou art my God, I will exalt thee, and give glory to thy name: for thou hast done wonderful things, thy designs of old faithful, amen. 
    2: For thou hast reduced the city to a heap, the strong city to ruin, the house of strangers, to be no city, and to be no more built up for ever. 
    3: Therefore shall a strong people praise thee, the city of mighty nations shall fear thee. 
    4: Because thou hast been a strength to the poor, a strength to the needy in his distress: a refuge from the whirlwind, a shadow from the heat. For the blast of the mighty is like a whirlwind beating against a wall. 
    5: Thou shalt bring down the tumult of strangers, as heat in thirst: and as with heat under a burning cloud, thou shalt make the branch of the mighty to wither away.
    6: And the Lord of hosts shall make unto all people in this mountain, a feast of fat things, a feast of wine, of fat things full of marrow, of wine purified from the lees. 
    7: And he shall destroy in this mountain the face of the bond with which all people were tied, and the web that he began over all nations. 
    8: He shall cast death down headlong for ever: and the Lord God shall wipe away tears from every face, and the reproach of his people he shall take away from off the whole earth: for the Lord hath spoken it. 
    9: And they shall say in that day: Lo, this is our God, we have waited for him, and he will save us: this is the Lord, we have patiently waited for him, we shall rejoice and be joyfull in his salvation. 
    10: For the hand of the Lord shall rest in this mountain: and Moab shall be trodden down under him, as straw is broken in pieces with the wain.
    11: And he shall stretch forth his hands under him, as he that swimmeth stretcheth forth his hands to swim: and he shall bring down his glory with the dashing of his hands. 
    12: And the bulwarks of thy high walls shall fall, and be brought low, and shall be pulled down to the ground, even to the dust.

  Chapter 26.

    1: In that day shall this canticle be sung the land of Juda. Sion the city of our strength a saviour, a wall and a bulwark shall be set therein. 
    2: Open ye the gates, and let the just nation, that keepeth the truth, enter in. 
    3: The old error is passed away: thou wilt keep peace: peace, because we have hoped in thee. 
    4: You have hoped in the Lord for evermore, in the Lord God mighty for ever. 
    5: For he shall bring down them that dwell on high, the high city he shall lay low. He shall bring it down even to the ground, he shall pull it down even to the dust.
    6: The foot shall tread it down, the feet of the poor, the steps of the needy. 
    7: The way of the just is right, the path of the just is right to walk in. 
    8: And in the way of thy judgments, O Lord, we have patiently waited for thee: thy name, and thy remembrance are the desire of the soul. 
    9: My soul hath desired thee in the night: yea, and with my spirit within me in the morning early I will watch to thee. When thou shalt do thy judgments on the earth, the inhabitants of the world shall learn justice. 
    10: Let us have pity on the wicked, but he will not learn justice: in the land of the saints he hath done wicked things, and he shall not see the glory of the Lord.
    11: Lord, let thy hand be exalted, and let them not see: let the envious people see, and be confounded: and let fire devour thy enemies. 
    12: Lord, thou wilt give us peace: for thou hast wrought all our works for us. 
    13: O Lord our God, other lords besides thee have had dominion over us, only in thee let us remember thy name. 
    14: Let not the dead live, let not the giants rise again: therefore hast thou visited and destroyed them, and hast destroyed all their memory. 
    15: Thou hast been favourable to the nation, O Lord, thou hast been favourable to the nation: art thou glorified? thou hast removed all the ends of the earth far off.
    16: Lord, they have sought after thee in distress, in the tribulation of murmuring thy instruction was with them. 
    17: As a woman with child, when she draweth near the time of her delivery, is in pain, and crieth out in her pangs: so are we become in thy presence, O Lord. 
    18: We have conceived, and been as it were in labour, and have brought forth wind: we have not wrought salvation on the earth, therefore the inhabitants of the earth have not fallen. 
    19: Thy dead men shall live, my slain shall rise again: awake, and give praise, ye that dwell in the dust: for thy dew is the dew of the light: and the land of the giants thou shalt pull down into ruin. 
    20: Go, my people, enter into thy chambers, shut thy doors upon thee, hide thyself a little for a moment, until the indignation pass away.
    21: For behold the Lord will come out of his place, to visit the iniquity of the inhabitant of the earth against him: and the earth shall disclose her blood, and shall cover her slain no more.

  Chapter 27.

    1: In that day the Lord with his hard, and great, and strong sword shall visit leviathan the bar serpent, and leviathan the crooked serpent, and shall slay the whale that is in the sea. 
    2: In that day there shall be singing to the vineyard of pure wine. 
    3: I am the Lord that keep it, I will suddenly give it drink: lest any hurt come to it, I keep it night and day. 
    4: There is no indignation in me: who shall make me a thorn and a brier in battle: shall march against it, shall I set it on fire together? 
    5: Or rather shall it take hold of my strength, shall it make peace with me, shall it make peace with me?
    6: When they shall rush in unto Jacob, Israel shall blossom and bud, and they shall fill the face of the world with seed. 
    7: Hath he struck him according to the stroke of him that struck him? or is he slain, as he killed them that were slain by him? 
    8: In measure against measure, when it shall be cast off, thou shalt judge it. He hath meditated with his severe spirit in the day of heat. 
    9: Therefore upon this shall the iniquity of the house of Jacob be forgiven: and this is all the fruit, that the sin thereof should be taken away, when he shall have made all the stones of the altar, as burnt stones broken in pieces, the groves and temples shall not stand. 
    10: For the strong city shall be desolate, the beautiful city shall be forsaken, and shall be left as a wilderness: there the calf shall feed, and there shall he lie down, and shall consume its branches.
    11: Its harvest shall be destroyed with drought, women shall come and teach it: for it is not a wise people, therefore he that made it, shall not have mercy on it: and he that formed it, shall not spare it. 
    12: And it shall come to pass, that in that day the Lord will strike from the channel of the river even to the torrent of Egypt, and you shall be gathered together one by one, O ye children of Israel. 
    13: And it shall come to pass, that in that day a noise shall be made with a great trumpet, and they that were lost, shall come from the land of the Assyrians, and they that were outcasts in the land of Egypt, and they shall adore the Lord in the holy mount in Jerusalem.

  Chapter 28.

    1: Woe to the crown of pride, to the drunkards of Ephraim, and to the fading flower the glory of his joy, who were on the head of the fat valley, staggering with wine. 
    2: Behold the Lord is mighty and strong, as a storm of hail: a destroying whirlwind, as the violence of many waters overflowing, and sent forth upon a spacious land. 
    3: The crown of pride of the drunkards of Ephraim shall be trodden under feet. 
    4: And the fading flower the glory of his joy, who is on the head of the fat valley, shall be as a hasty fruit before the ripeness of autumn: which when he that seeth it shall behold, as soon as he taketh it in his hand, he will eat it up. 
    5: In that day the Lord of hosts shall be a crown of glory, and a garland of joy to the residue of his people:
    6: And a spirit of judgment to him that sitteth in judgment, and strength to them that return out of the battle to the gate. 
    7: But these also have been ignorant through wine, and through drunkenness have erred: the priest and the prophet have been ignorant through drunkenness, they are swallowed up with wine, they have gone astray in drunkenness, they have not known him that seeth, they have been ignorant of judgment. 
    8: For all tables were full of vomit and filth, so that there was no more place. 
    9: Whom shall he teach knowledge? and whom shall he make to understand the hearing? them that are weaned from the milk, that are drawn away from the breasts. 
    10: For command, command again; command, command again; expect, expect again; expect, expect again: a little there, a little there.
    11: For with the speech of lips, and with another tongue he will speak to this people. 
    12: To whom he said: This is my rest, refresh the weary, and this is my refreshing: and they would not hear. 
    13: And the word of the Lord shall be to them: Command, command again; command, command again: expect, expect again; expect, expect again: a little there, a little there: that they may go, and fall backward, and be broken, and snared, and taken. 
    14: Wherefore hear the word of the Lord, ye scornful men, who rule over my people that is in Jerusalem. 
    15: For you have said: We have entered into a league with death, and we have made a covenant with hell. When the overflowing scourge shall pass through, it shall not come upon us: for we have placed our hope in lies, and by falsehood we are protected.
    16: Therefore thus saith the Lord God: Behold I will lay a stone in the foundations of Sion, a tried stone, a corner stone, a precious stone, founded in the foundation. He that believeth, let him not hasten. 
    17: And I will set judgment in weight, and justice in measure: and hail shall overturn the hope of falsehood: and waters shall overflow its protection. 
    18: And your league with death shall be abolished, and your covenant with hell shall not stand: when the overflowing scourge shall pass, you shall be trodden down by it. 
    19: Whensoever it shall pass through, it shall take you away: because in the morning early it shall pass through, in the day and in the night, and vexation alone shall make you understand what you hear. 
    20: For the bed is straitened, so that one must fall out, and a short covering cannot cover both.
    21: For the Lord shall stand up as in the mountain of divisions: he shall be angry as in the valley which is in Gabaon: that he may do his work, his strange work: that he may perform his work, his work is strange to him. 
    22: And now do not mock, lest your bonds be tied strait. For I have heard of the Lord the God of hosts a consumption and a cutting short upon all the earth. 
    23: Give ear, and hear my voice, hearken, and hear my speech. 
    24: Shall the ploughman plough all the day to sow, shall he open and harrow his ground? 
    25: Will he not, when he hath made plain the surface thereof, sow gith, and scatter cummin, and put wheat in order, and barley, and millet, and vetches in their bounds?
    26: For he will instruct him in judgment: his God will teach him. 
    27: For gith shall not be thrashed with saws, neither shall the cart wheel turn about upon cummin: but gith shall be beaten out with a rod, and cummin with a staff. 
    28: But bread corn shall be broken small: but the thrasher shall not thrash it for ever, neither shall the cart wheel hurt it, nor break it with its teeth. 
    29: This also is come forth from the Lord God of hosts, to make his counsel wonderful, and magnify justice.

End of day 219.