Day 298:

Reading Luke, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: And there were present, at that very time, some that told him of the Galileans, whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices. 
    2: And he answering, said to them: Think you that these Galileans were sinners above all the men of Galilee, because they suffered such things? 
    3: No, I say to you: but unless you shall do penance, you shall all likewise perish. 
    4: Or those eighteen upon whom the tower fell in Siloe, and slew them: think you, that they also were debtors above all the men that dwelt in Jerusalem? 
    5: No, I say to you; but except you do penance, you shall all likewise perish.
    6: He spoke also this parable: A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard, and he came seeking fruit on it, and found none. 
    7: And he said to the dresser of the vineyard: Behold, for these three years I come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and I find none. Cut it done therefore: why cumbereth it the ground? 
    8: But he answering, said to him: Lord, let it alone this year also, until I dig about it, and dung it. 
    9: And if happily it bear fruit: but if not, then after that thou shalt cut it down. 
    10: And he was teaching in their synagogue on their sabbath.
    11: And behold there was a woman, who had a spirit of infirmity eighteen years: and she was bowed together, neither could she look upwards at all. 
    12: Whom when Jesus saw, he called her unto him, and said to her: Woman, thou art delivered from thy infirmity. 
    13: And he laid his hands upon her, and immediately she was made straight, and glorified God. 
    14: And the ruler of the synagogue (being angry that Jesus had healed on the sabbath) answering, said to the multitude: Six days there are wherein you ought to work. In them therefore come, and be healed; and not on the sabbath day. 
    15: And the Lord answering him, said: Ye hypocrites, doth not every one of you, on the sabbath day, loose his ox or his ass from the manger, and lead them to water?
    16: And ought not this daughter of Abraham, whom Satan hath bound, lo, these eighteen years, be loosed from this bond on the sabbath day? 
    17: And when he said these things, all his adversaries were ashamed: and all the people rejoiced for all the things that were gloriously done by him. 
    18: He said therefore: To what is the kingdom of God like, and whereunto shall I resemble it? 
    19: It is like to a grain of mustard seed, which a man took and cast into his garden, and it grew and became a great tree, and the birds of the air lodged in the branches thereof. 
    20: And again he said: Whereunto shall I esteem the kingdom of God to be like?
    21: It is like to leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal, till the whole was leavened. 
    22: And he went through the cities and towns teaching, and making his journey to Jerusalem. 
    23: And a certain man said to him: Lord, are they few that are saved? But he said to them: 
    24: Strive to enter by the narrow gate; for many, I say to you, shall seek to enter, and shall not be able. 
    25: But when the master of the house shall be gone in, and shall shut the door, you shall begin to stand without, and knock at the door, saying: Lord, open to us. And he answering, shall say to you: I know you not, whence you are.
    26: Then you shall begin to say: We have eaten and drunk in thy presence, and thou hast taught in our streets. 
    27: And he shall say to you: I know you not, whence you are: depart from me, all ye workers of iniquity. 
    28: There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth, when you shall see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, and all the prophets, in the kingdom of God, and you yourselves thrust out. 
    29: And there shall come from the east and the west, and the north and the south; and shall sit down in the kingdom of God. 
    30: And behold, they are last that shall be first; and they are first that shall be last.
    31: The same day, there came some of the Pharisees, saying to him: Depart, and get thee hence, for Herod hath a mind to kill thee. 
    32: And he said to them: Go and tell that fox, Behold, I cast out devils, and do cures today and tomorrow, and the third day I am consummated. 
    33: Nevertheless I must walk today and tomorrow, and the day following, because it cannot be that a prophet perish, out of Jerusalem. 
    34: Jerusalem, Jerusalem, that killest the prophets, and stonest them that are sent to thee, how often would I have gathered thy children as the bird doth her brood under her wings, and thou wouldest not? 
    35: Behold your house shall be left to you desolate. And I say to you, that you shall not see me till the time come, when you shall say: Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord.

  Chapter 14.

    1: And it came to pass, when Jesus went into the house of one of the chief of the Pharisees, on the sabbath day, to eat bread, that they watched him. 
    2: And behold, there was a certain man before him that had the dropsy. 
    3: And Jesus answering, spoke to the lawyers and Pharisees, saying: Is it lawful to heal on the sabbath day? 
    4: But they held their peace. But he taking him, healed him, and sent him away. 
    5: And answering them, he said: Which of you shall have an ass or an ox fall into a pit, and will not immediately draw him out, on the sabbath day?
    6: And they could not answer him to these things. 
    7: And he spoke a parable also to them that were invited, marking how they chose the first seats at the table, saying to them: 
    8: When thou art invited to a wedding, sit not down in the first place, lest perhaps one more honourable than thou be invited by him: 
    9: And he that invited thee and him, come and say to thee, Give this man place: and then thou begin with shame to take the lowest place. 
    10: But when thou art invited, go, sit down in the lowest place; that when he who invited thee, cometh, he may say to thee: Friend, go up higher. Then shalt thou have glory before them that sit at table with thee.
    11: Because every one that exalteth himself, shall be humbled; and he that humbleth himself, shall be exalted. 
    12: And he said to him also that had invited him: When thou makest a dinner or a supper, call not thy friends, nor thy brethren, nor thy kinsmen, nor thy neighbours who are rich; lest perhaps they also invite thee again, and a recompense be made to thee. 
    13: But when thou makest a feast, call the poor, the maimed, the lame, and the blind; 
    14: And thou shalt be blessed, because they have not wherewith to make thee recompense: for recompense shall be made thee at the resurrection of the just. 
    15: When one of them that sat at table with him, had heard these things, he said to him: Blessed is he that shall eat bread in the kingdom of God.
    16: But he said to him: A certain man made a great supper, and invited many. 
    17: And he sent his servant at the hour of supper to say to them that were invited, that they should come, for now all things are ready. 
    18: And they began all at once to make excuse. The first said to him: I have bought a farm, and I must needs go out and see it: I pray thee, hold me excused. 
    19: And another said: I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I go to try them: I pray thee, hold me excused. 
    20: And another said: I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come.
    21: And the servant returning, told these things to his lord. Then the master of the house, being angry, said to his servant: Go out quickly into the streets and lanes of the city, and bring in hither the poor, and the feeble, and the blind, and the lame. 
    22: And the servant said: Lord, it is done as thou hast commanded, and yet there is room. 
    23: And the Lord said to the servant: Go out into the highways and hedges, and compel them to come in, that my house may be filled. 
    24: But I say unto you, that none of those men that were invited, shall taste of my supper. 
    25: And there went great multitudes with him. And turning, he said to them:
    26: If any man come to me, and hate not his father, and mother, and wife, and children, and brethren, and sisters, yea and his own life also, he cannot be my disciple. 
    27: And whosoever doth not carry his cross and come after me, cannot be my disciple. 
    28: For which of you having a mind to build a tower, doth not first sit down, and reckon the charges that are necessary, whether he have wherewithal to finish it: 
    29: Lest, after he hath laid the foundation, and is not able to finish it, all that see it begin to mock him, 
    30: Saying: This man began to build, and was not able to finish.
    31: Or what king, about to go to make war against another king, doth not first sit down, and think whether he be able, with ten thousand, to meet him that, with twenty thousand, cometh against him? 
    32: Or else, whilst the other is yet afar off, sending an embassy, he desireth conditions of peace. 
    33: So likewise every one of you that doth not renounce all that he possesseth, cannot be my disciple. 
    34: Salt is good. But if the salt shall lose its savour, wherewith shall it be seasoned? 
    35: It is neither profitable for the land nor for the dunghill, but shall be cast out. He that hath ears to hear, let him hear.

  Chapter 15.

    1: Now the publicans and sinners drew near unto him to hear him. 
    2: And the Pharisees and the scribes murmured, saying: This man receiveth sinners, and eateth with them. 
    3: And he spoke to them this parable, saying: 
    4: What man of you that hath an hundred sheep: and if he shall lose one of them, doth he not leave the ninety-nine in the desert, and go after that which was lost, until he find it? 
    5: And when he hath found it, lay it upon his shoulders, rejoicing:
    6: And coming home, call together his friends and neighbours, saying to them: Rejoice with me, because I have found my sheep that was lost? 
    7: I say to you, that even so there shall be joy in heaven upon one sinner that doth penance, more than upon ninety-nine just who need not penance. 
    8: Or what woman having ten groats; if she lose one groat, doth not light a candle, and sweep the house, and seek diligently until she find it? 
    9: And when she hath found it, call together her friends and neighbours, saying: Rejoice with me, because I have found the groat which I had lost. 
    10: So I say to you, there shall be joy before the angels of God upon one sinner doing penance.
    11: And he said: A certain man had two sons: 
    12: And the younger of them said to his father: Father, give me the portion of substance that falleth to me. And he divided unto them his substance. 
    13: And not many days after, the younger son, gathering all together, went abroad into a far country: and there wasted his substance, living riotously. 
    14: And after he had spent all, there came a mighty famine in that country; and he began to be in want. 
    15: And he went and cleaved to one of the citizens of that country. And he sent him into his farm to feed swine.
    16: And he would fain have filled his belly with the husks the swine did eat; and no man gave unto him. 
    17: And returning to himself, he said: How many hired servants in my father's house abound with bread, and I here perish with hunger? 
    18: I will arise, and will go to my father, and say to him: Father, I have sinned against heaven, and before thee: 
    19: I am not worthy to be called thy son: make me as one of thy hired servants. 
    20: And rising up he came to his father. And when he was yet a great way off, his father saw him, and was moved with compassion, and running to him fell upon his neck, and kissed him.
    21: And the son said to him: Father, I have sinned against heaven, and before thee, I am not now worthy to be called thy son. 
    22: And the father said to his servants: Bring forth quickly the first robe, and put it on him, and put a ring on his hand, and shoes on his feet: 
    23: And bring hither the fatted calf, and kill it, and let us eat and make merry: 
    24: Because this my son was dead, and is come to life again: was lost, and is found. And they began to be merry. 
    25: Now his elder son was in the field, and when he came and drew nigh to the house, he heard music and dancing:
    26: And he called one of the servants, and asked what these things meant. 
    27: And he said to him: Thy brother is come, and thy father hath killed the fatted calf, because he hath received him safe. 
    28: And he was angry, and would not go in. His father therefore coming out began to entreat him. 
    29: And he answering, said to his father: Behold, for so many years do I serve thee, and I have never transgressed thy commandment, and yet thou hast never given me a kid to make merry with my friends: 
    30: But as soon as this thy son is come, who hath devoured his substance with harlots, thou hast killed for him the fatted calf.
    31: But he said to him: Son, thou art always with me, and all I have is thine. 
    32: But it was fit that we should make merry and be glad, for this thy brother was dead and is come to life again; he was lost, and is found.

  Chapter 16.

    1: And he said also to his disciples: There was a certain rich man who had a steward: and the same was accused unto him, that he had wasted his goods. 
    2: And he called him, and said to him: How is it that I hear this of thee? give an account of thy stewardship: for now thou canst be steward no longer. 
    3: And the steward said within himself: What shall I do, because my lord taketh away from me the stewardship? To dig I am not able; to beg I am ashamed. 
    4: I know what I will do, that when I shall be removed from the stewardship, they may receive me into their houses. 
    5: Therefore calling together every one of his lord's debtors, he said to the first: How much dost thou owe my lord?
    6: But he said: An hundred barrels of oil. And he said to him: Take thy bill and sit down quickly, and write fifty. 
    7: Then he said to another: And how much dost thou owe? Who said: An hundred quarters of wheat. He said to him: Take thy bill, and write eighty. 
    8: And the lord commended the unjust steward, forasmuch as he had done wisely: for the children of this world are wiser in their generation than the children of light. 
    9: And I say to you: Make unto you friends of the mammon of iniquity; that when you shall fail, they may receive you into everlasting dwellings. 
    10: He that is faithful in that which is least, is faithful also in that which is greater: and he that is unjust in that which is little, is unjust also in that which is greater.
    11: If then you have not been faithful in the unjust mammon; who will trust you with that which is the true? 
    12: And if you have not been faithful in that which is another's; who will give you that which is your own? 
    13: No servant can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or he will hold to the one, and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon. 
    14: Now the Pharisees, who were covetous, heard all these things: and they derided him. 
    15: And he said to them: You are they who justify yourselves before men, but God knoweth your hearts; for that which is high to men, is an abomination before God.
    16: The law and the prophets were until John; from that time the kingdom of God is preached, and every one useth violence towards it. 
    17: And it is easier for heaven and earth to pass, than one tittle of the law to fall. 
    18: Every one that putteth away his wife, and marrieth another, committeth adultery: and he that marrieth her that is put away from her husband, committeth adultery. 
    19: There was a certain rich man, who was clothed in purple and fine linen; and feasted sumptuously every day. 
    20: And there was a certain beggar, named Lazarus, who lay at his gate, full of sores,
    21: Desiring to be filled with the crumbs that fell from the rich man's table, and no one did give him; moreover the dogs came, and licked his sores. 
    22: And it came to pass, that the beggar died, and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom. And the rich man also died: and he was buried in hell. 
    23: And lifting up his eyes when he was in torments, he saw Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom: 
    24: And he cried, and said: Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his finger in water, to cool my tongue: for I am tormented in this flame. 
    25: And Abraham said to him: Son, remember that thou didst receive good things in thy lifetime, and likewise Lazareth evil things, but now he is comforted; and thou art tormented.
    26: And besides all this, between us and you, there is fixed a great chaos: so that they who would pass from hence to you, cannot, nor from thence come hither. 
    27: And he said: Then, father, I beseech thee, that thou wouldst send him to my father's house, for I have five brethren, 
    28: That he may testify unto them, lest they also come into this place of torments. 
    29: And Abraham said to him: They have Moses and the prophets; let them hear them. 
    30: But he said: No, father Abraham: but if one went to them from the dead, they will do penance.
    31: And he said to him: If they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they believe, if one rise again from the dead.

End of day 298.