Day 289:

Reading Matthew, chapters ['21', '22', '23', '24']:

  Chapter 21.

    1: And when they drew nigh to Jerusalem, and were come to Bethphage, unto mount Olivet, then Jesus sent two disciples, 
    2: Saying to them: Go ye into the village that is over against you, and immediately you shall find an ass tied, and a colt with her: loose them and bring them to me. 
    3: And if any man shall say anything to you, say ye, that the Lord hath need of them: and forthwith he will let them go. 
    4: Now all this was done that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophet, saying: 
    5: Tell ye the daughter of Sion: Behold thy king cometh to thee, meek, and sitting upon an ass, and a colt the foal of her that is used to the yoke.
    6: And the disciples going, did as Jesus commanded them. 
    7: And they brought the ass and the colt, and laid their garments upon them, and made him sit thereon. 
    8: And a very great multitude spread their garments in the way: and others cut boughs from the trees, and strewed them in the way: 
    9: And the multitudes that went before and that followed, cried, saying: Hosanna to the son of David: Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord: Hosanna in the highest. 
    10: And when he was come into Jerusalem, the whole city was moved, saying: Who is this?
    11: And the people said: This is Jesus the prophet, from Nazareth of Galilee. 
    12: And Jesus went into the temple of God, and cast out all them that sold and bought in the temple, and overthrew the tables of the money changers, and the chairs of them that sold doves: 
    13: And he saith to them: It is written, My house shall be called the house of prayer; but you have made it a den of thieves. 
    14: And there came to him the blind and the lame in the temple; and he healed them. 
    15: And the chief priests and scribes, seeing the wonderful things that he did, and the children crying in the temple, and saying: Hosanna to the son of David; were moved with indignation.
    16: And said to him: Hearest thou what these say? And Jesus said to them: Yea, have you never read: Out of the mouth of infants and of sucklings thou hast perfected praise? 
    17: And leaving them, he went out of the city into Bethania, and remained there. 
    18: And in the morning, returning into the city, he was hungry. 
    19: And seeing a certain fig tree by the way side, he came to it, and found nothing on it but leaves only, and he saith to it: May no fruit grow on thee henceforward for ever. And immediately the fig tree withered away. 
    20: And the disciples seeing it wondered, saying: How is it presently withered away?
    21: And Jesus answering, said to them: Amen, I say to you, if you shall have faith, and stagger not, not only this of the fig tree shall you do, but also if you shall say to this mountain, Take up and cast thyself into the sea, it shall be done. 
    22: And in all things whatsoever you shall ask in prayer, believing, you shall receive. 
    23: And when he was come into the temple, there came to him, as he was teaching, the chief priests and ancients of the people, saying: By what authority dost thou these things? and who hath given thee this authority? 
    24: Jesus answering, said to them: I also will ask you one word, which if you shall tell me, I will also tell you by what authority I do these things. 
    25: The baptism of John, whence was it? from heaven or from men? But they thought within themselves, saying:
    26: If we shall say, from heaven, he will say to us: Why then did you not believe him? But if we shall say, from men, we are afraid of the multitude: for all held John as a prophet. 
    27: And answering Jesus, they said: We know not. He also said to them: Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things. 
    28: But what think you? A certain man had two sons; and coming to the first, he said: Son, go work today in my vineyard. 
    29: And he answering, said: I will not. But afterwards, being moved with repentance, he went. 
    30: And coming to the other, he said in like manner. And he answering, said: I go, Sir; and he went not.
    31: Which of the two did the father's will? They say to him: The first. Jesus saith to them: Amen I say to you, that the publicans and the harlots shall go into the kingdom of God before you. 
    32: For John came to you in the way of justice, and you did not believe him. But the publicans and the harlots believed him: but you, seeing it, did not even afterwards repent, that you might believe him. 
    33: Hear ye another parable. There was a man an householder, who planted a vineyard, and made a hedge round about it, and dug in it a press, and built a tower, and let it out to husbandmen; and went into a strange country. 
    34: And when the time of the fruits drew nigh, he sent his servants to the husbandmen that they might receive the fruits thereof. 
    35: And the husbandmen laying hands on his servants, beat one, and killed another, and stoned another.
    36: Again he sent other servants more than the former; and they did to them in like manner. 
    37: And last of all he sent to them his son, saying: They will reverence my son. 
    38: But the husbandmen seeing the son, said among themselves: This is the heir: come, let us kill him, and we shall have his inheritance. 
    39: And taking him, they cast him forth out of the vineyard, and killed him. 
    40: When therefore the lord of the vineyard shall come, what will he do to those husbandmen?
    41: They say to him: He will bring those evil men to an evil end; and will let out his vineyard to other husbandmen, that shall render him the fruit in due season. 
    42: Jesus saith to them: Have you never read in the Scriptures: The stone which the builders rejected, the same is become the head of the corner? By the Lord this has been done; and it is wonderful in our eyes. 
    43: Therefore I say to you, that the kingdom of God shall be taken from you, and shall be given to a nation yielding the fruits thereof. 
    44: And whosoever shall fall on this stone, shall be broken: but on whomsoever it shall fall, it shall grind him to powder. 
    45: And when the chief priests and Pharisees had heard his parables, they knew that he spoke of them.
    46: And seeking to lay hands on him, they feared the multitudes: because they held him as a prophet.

  Chapter 22.

    1: And Jesus answering, spoke again in parables to them, saying: 
    2: The kingdom of heaven is likened to a king, who made a marriage for his son. 
    3: And he sent his servants, to call them that were invited to the marriage; and they would not come. 
    4: Again he sent other servants, saying: Tell them that were invited, Behold, I have prepared my dinner; my calves and fatlings are killed, and all things are ready: come ye to the marriage. 
    5: But they neglected, and went their own ways, one to his farm, and another to his merchandise.
    6: And the rest laid hands on his servants, and having treated them contumeliously, put them to death. 
    7: But when the king had heard of it, he was angry, and sending his armies, he destroyed those murderers, and burnt their city. 
    8: Then he saith to his servants: The marriage indeed is ready; but they that were invited were not worthy. 
    9: Go ye therefore into the highways; and as many as you shall find, call to the marriage. 
    10: And his servants going forth into the ways, gathered together all that they found, both bad and good: and the marriage was filled with guests.
    11: And the king went in to see the guests: and he saw there a man who had not on a wedding garment. 
    12: And he saith to him: Friend, how camest thou in hither not having a wedding garment? But he was silent. 
    13: Then the king said to the waiters: Bind his hands and feet, and cast him into the exterior darkness: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. 
    14: For many are called, but few are chosen. 
    15: Then the Pharisees going, consulted among themselves how to insnare him in his speech.
    16: And they sent to him their disciples with the Herodians, saying: Master, we know that thou art a true speaker, and teachest the way of God in truth, neither carest thou for any man: for thou dost not regard the person of men. 
    17: Tell us therefore what dost thou think, is it lawful to give tribute to Caesar, or not? 
    18: But Jesus knowing their wickedness, said: Why do you tempt me, ye hypocrites? 
    19: Shew me the coin of the tribute. And they offered him a penny. 
    20: And Jesus saith to them: Whose image and inscription is this?
    21: They say to him: Caesar's. Then he saith to them: Render therefore to Caesar the things that are Caesar's; and to God, the things that are God's. 
    22: And hearing this they wondered, and leaving him, went their ways. 
    23: That day there came to him the Sadducees, who say there is no resurrection; and asked him, 
    24: Saying: Master, Moses said: If a man die having no son, his brother shall marry his wife, and raise up issue to his brother. 
    25: Now there were with us seven brethren: and the first having married a wife, died; and not having issue, left his wife to his brother.
    26: In like manner the second, and the third, and so on to the seventh. 
    27: And last of all the woman died also. 
    28: At the resurrection therefore whose wife of the seven shall she be? for they all had her. 
    29: And Jesus answering, said to them: You err, not knowing the Scriptures, nor the power of God. 
    30: For in the resurrection they shall neither marry nor be married; but shall be as the angels of God in heaven.
    31: And concerning the resurrection of the dead, have you not read that which was spoken by God, saying to you: 
    32: I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob? He is not the God of the dead, but of the living. 
    33: And the multitudes hearing it, were in admiration at his doctrine. 
    34: But the Pharisees hearing that he had silenced the Sadducees, came together: 
    35: And one of them, a doctor of the law, asking him, tempting him:
    36: Master, which is the greatest commandment in the law? 
    37: Jesus said to him: Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with thy whole heart, and with thy whole soul, and with thy whole mind. 
    38: This is the greatest and the first commandment. 
    39: And the second is like to this: Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. 
    40: On these two commandments dependeth the whole law and the prophets.
    41: And the Pharisees being gathered together, Jesus asked them, 
    42: Saying: What think you of Christ? whose son is he? They say to him: David's. 
    43: He saith to them: How then doth David in spirit call him Lord, saying: 
    44: The Lord said to my Lord, Sit on my right hand, until I make thy enemies thy footstool? 
    45: If David then call him Lord, how is he his son?
    46: And no man was able to answer him a word; neither durst any man from that day forth ask him any more questions.

  Chapter 23.

    1: Then Jesus spoke to the multitudes and to his disciples, 
    2: Saying: The scribes and the Pharisees have sitten on the chair of Moses. 
    3: All things therefore whatsoever they shall say to you, observe and do: but according to their works do ye not; for they say, and do not. 
    4: For they bind heavy and insupportable burdens, and lay them on men's shoulders; but with a finger of their own they will not move them. 
    5: And all their works they do for to be seen of men. For they make their phylacteries broad, and enlarge their fringes.
    6: And they love the first places at feasts, and the first chairs in the synagogues, 
    7: And salutations in the market place, and to be called by men, Rabbi. 
    8: But be not you called Rabbi. For one is your master; and all you are brethren. 
    9: And call none your father upon earth; for one is your father, who is in heaven. 
    10: Neither be ye called masters; for one is your master, Christ.
    11: He that is the greatest among you shall be your servant. 
    12: And whosoever shall exalt himself shall be humbled: and he that shall humble himself shall be exalted. 
    13: But woe to you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites; because you shut the kingdom of heaven against men, for you yourselves do not enter in; and those that are going in, you suffer not to enter. 
    14: Woe to you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites: because you devour the houses of widows, praying long prayers. For this you shall receive the greater judgment. 
    15: Woe to you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites; because you go round about the sea and the land to make one proselyte; and when he is made, you make him the child of hell twofold more than yourselves.
    16: Woe to you blind guides, that say, Whosoever shall swear by the temple, it is nothing; but he that shall swear by the gold of the temple, is a debtor. 
    17: Ye foolish and blind; for whether is greater, the gold, or the temple that sanctifieth the gold? 
    18: And whosoever shall swear by the altar, it is nothing; but whosoever shall swear by the gift that is upon it, is a debtor. 
    19: Ye blind: for whether is greater, the gift, or the altar that sanctifieth the gift? 
    20: He therefore that sweareth by the altar, sweareth by it, and by all things that are upon it:
    21: And whosoever shall swear by the temple, sweareth by it, and by him that dwelleth in it: 
    22: And he that sweareth by heaven, sweareth by the throne of God, and by him that sitteth thereon. 
    23: Woe to you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites; because you tithe mint, and anise, and cummin, and have left the weightier things of the law; judgment, and mercy, and faith. These things you ought to have done, and not to leave those undone. 
    24: Blind guides, who strain out a gnat, and swallow a camel. 
    25: Woe to you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites; because you make clean the outside of the cup and of the dish, but within you are full of rapine and uncleanness.
    26: Thou blind Pharisee, first make clean the inside of the cup and of the dish, that the outside may become clean. 
    27: Woe to you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites; because you are like to whited sepulchres, which outwardly appear to men beautiful, but within are full of dead men's bones, and of all filthiness. 
    28: So you also outwardly indeed appear to men just; but inwardly you are full of hypocrisy and iniquity. 
    29: Woe to you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites; that build the sepulchres of the prophets, and adorn the monuments of the just, 
    30: And say: If we had been in the days of our Fathers, we would not have been partakers with them in the blood of the prophets.
    31: Wherefore you are witnesses against yourselves, that you are the sons of them that killed the prophets. 
    32: Fill ye up then the measure of your fathers. 
    33: You serpents, generation of vipers, how will you flee from the judgment of hell? 
    34: Therefore behold I send to you prophets, and wise men, and scribes: and some of them you will put to death and crucify, and some you will scourge in your synagogues, and persecute from city to city: 
    35: That upon you may come all the just blood that hath been shed upon the earth, from the blood of Abel the just, even unto the blood of Zacharias the son of Barachias, whom you killed between the temple and the altar.
    36: Amen I say to you, all these things shall come upon this generation. 
    37: Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou that killest the prophets, and stonest them that are sent unto thee, how often would I have gathered together thy children, as the hen doth gather her chickens under her wings, and thou wouldest not? 
    38: Behold, your house shall be left to you, desolate. 
    39: For I say to you, you shall not see me henceforth till you say: Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord.

  Chapter 24.

    1: And Jesus being come out of the temple, went away. And his disciples came to shew him the buildings of the temple. 
    2: And he answering, said to them: Do you see all these things? Amen I say to you there shall not be left here a stone upon a stone that shall not be destroyed. 
    3: And when he was sitting on mount Olivet, the disciples came to him privately, saying: Tell us when shall these things be? and what shall be the sign of thy coming, and of the consummation of the world? 
    4: And Jesus answering, said to them: Take heed that no man seduce you: 
    5: For many will come in my name saying, I am Christ: and they will seduce many.
    6: And you shall hear of wars and rumours of wars. See that ye be not troubled. For these things must come to pass, but the end is not yet. 
    7: For nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom; and there shall be pestilences, and famines, and earthquakes in places: 
    8: Now all these are the beginnings of sorrows. 
    9: Then shall they deliver you up to be afflicted, and shall put you to death: and you shall be hated by all nations for my name's sake. 
    10: And then shall many be scandalized: and shall betray one another: and shall hate one another.
    11: And many false prophets shall rise, and shall seduce many. 
    12: And because iniquity hath abounded, the charity of many shall grow cold. 
    13: But he that shall persevere to the end, he shall be saved. 
    14: And this gospel of the kingdom, shall be preached in the whole world, for a testimony to all nations, and then shall the consummation come. 
    15: When therefore you shall see the abomination of desolation, which was spoken of by Daniel the prophet, standing in the holy place: he that readeth let him understand.
    16: Then they that are in Judea, let them flee to the mountains: 
    17: And he that is on the housetop, let him not come down to take any thing out of his house: 
    18: And he that is in the field, let him not go back to take his coat. 
    19: And woe to them that are with child, and that give suck in those days. 
    20: But pray that your flight be not in the winter, or on the sabbath.
    21: For there shall be then great tribulation, such as hath not been from the beginning of the world until now, neither shall be. 
    22: And unless those days had been shortened, no flesh should be saved: but for the sake of the elect those days shall be shortened. 
    23: Then if any man shall say to you: Lo here is Christ, or there, do not believe him. 
    24: For there shall arise false Christs and false prophets, and shall shew great signs and wonders, insomuch as to deceive (if possible) even the elect. 
    25: Behold I have told it to you, beforehand.
    26: If therefore they shall say to you: Behold he is in the desert, go ye not out: Behold he is in the closets, believe it not. 
    27: For as lightning cometh out of the east, and appeareth even into the west: so shall the coming of the Son of man be. 
    28: Wheresoever the body shall be, there shall the eagles also be gathered together. 
    29: And immediately after the tribulation of those days, the sun shall be darkened and the moon shall not give her light, and the stars shall fall from heaven, and the powers of heaven shall be moved: 
    30: And then shall appear the sign of the Son of man in heaven: and then shall all tribes of the earth mourn: and they shall see the Son of man coming in the clouds of heaven with much power and majesty.
    31: And he shall send his angels with a trumpet, and a great voice: and they shall gather together his elect from the four winds, from the farthest parts of the heavens to the utmost bounds of them. 
    32: And from the fig tree learn a parable: When the branch thereof is now tender, and the leaves come forth, you know that summer is nigh. 
    33: So you also, when you shall see all these things, know ye that it is nigh, even at the doors. 
    34: Amen I say to you, that this generation shall not pass, till all these things be done. 
    35: Heaven and earth shall pass, but my words shall not pass.
    36: But of that day and hour no one knoweth, not the angels of heaven, but the Father alone. 
    37: And as in the days of Noe, so shall also the coming of the Son of man be. 
    38: For as in the days before the flood, they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, even till that day in which Noe entered into the ark, 
    39: And they knew not till the flood came, and took them all away; so also shall the coming of the Son of man be. 
    40: Then two shall be in the field: one shall be taken, and one shall be left.
    41: Two women shall be grinding at the mill: one shall be taken, and one shall be left. 
    42: Watch ye therefore, because ye know not what hour your Lord will come. 
    43: But know this ye, that if the goodman of the house knew at what hour the thief would come, he would certainly watch, and would not suffer his house to be broken open. 
    44: Wherefore be you also ready, because at what hour you know not the Son of man will come. 
    45: Who, thinkest thou, is a faithful and wise servant, whom his lord hath appointed over his family, to give them meat in season.
    46: Blessed is that servant, whom when his lord shall come he shall find so doing. 
    47: Amen I say to you, he shall place him over all his goods. 
    48: But if that evil servant shall say in his heart: My lord is long a coming: 
    49: And shall begin to strike his fellow servants, and shall eat and drink with drunkards: 
    50: The lord of that servant shall come in a day that he hopeth not, and at an hour that he knoweth not:
    51: And shall separate him, and appoint his portion with the hypocrites. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.

End of day 289.