Day 119:

Reading Judith, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: And when they were gone, Judith went into her oratory: and putting on haircloth, laid ashes on her head: and falling down prostrate before the Lord, she cried to the Lord, saying: 
    2: O Lord God of my father Simeon, who gavest him a sword to execute vengeance against strangers, who had defiled by their uncleanness, and uncovered the virgin unto confusion: 
    3: And who gavest their wives to be made a prey, and their daughters into captivity: and all their spoils to be divided to thy servants, who were zealous with thy zeal: assist, I beseech thee, O Lord God, me a widow. 
    4: For thou hast done the things of old, and hast devised one thing after another: and what thou hast designed hath been done. 
    5: For all thy ways are prepared, and in thy providence thou hast placed thy judgments.
    6: Look upon the camp of the Assyrians now, as thou wast pleased to look upon the camp of the Egyptians, when they pursued armed after thy servants, trusting in their chariots, and in their horsemen, and in a multitude of warriors. 
    7: But thou lookedst over their camp, and darkness wearied them. 
    8: The deep held their feet, and the waters overwhelmed them. 
    9: So may it be with these also, O Lord, who trust in their multitude, and in their chariots, and in their pikes, and in their shields, and in their arrows, and glory in their spears, 
    10: And know not that thou art our God, who destroyest wars from the beginning, and the Lord is thy name.
    11: Lift up thy arm as from the beginning, and crush their power with thy power: let their power fall in their wrath, who promise themselves to violate thy sanctuary, and defile the dwelling place of thy name, and to beat down with their sword the horn of thy altar. 
    12: Bring to pass, O Lord, that his pride may be cut off with his own sword. 
    13: Let him be caught in the net of his own eyes in my regard, and do thou strike him by the graces of the words of my lips. 
    14: Give me constancy in my mind, that I may despise him: and fortitude that I may overthrow him. 
    15: For this will be a glorious monument for thy name, when he shall fall by the hand of a woman.
    16: For thy power, O Lord, is not in a multitude, nor is thy pleasure in the strength of horses, nor from the beginning have the proud been acceptable to thee: but the prayer of the humble and the meek hath always pleased thee. 
    17: O God of the heavens, creator of the waters, and Lord of the whole creation, hear me a poor wretch, making supplication to thee, and presuming of thy mercy. 
    18: Remember, O Lord, thy covenant, and put thou words in my mouth, and strengthen the resolution in my heart, that thy house may continue in thy holiness: 
    19: And all nations may acknowledge that thou art God, and there is no other besides thee.

  Chapter 10.

    1: And it came to pass, when she had ceased to cry to the Lord, that she rose from the place wherein she lay prostrate before the Lord. 
    2: And she called her maid, and going down into her house she took off her haircloth, and put away the garments of her widowhood, 
    3: And she washed her body, and anointed herself with the best ointment, and plaited the hair of her head, and put a bonnet upon her head, and clothed herself with the garments of her gladness, and put sandals on her feet, and took her bracelets, and lilies, and earlets, and rings, and adorned herself with all her ornaments. 
    4: And the Lord also gave her more beauty: because all this dressing up did not proceed from sensuality, lent from virtue: and therefore the Lord increased this her beauty, so that she appeared to all men's eyes incomparably lovely. 
    5: And she gave to her maid a bottle of wine to carry, and a vessel of oil, and parched corn, and dry figs, and bread and cheese, and went out.
    6: And when they came to the gate of the city, they found Ozias, and the ancients of the city waiting. 
    7: And when they saw her they were astonished, and admired her beauty exceedingly. 
    8: But they asked her no question, only they let her pass, saying: The God of our fathers give thee grace, and may he strengthen all the counsel of thy heart with his power, that Jerusalem may glory in thee, and thy name may be in the number of the holy and just. 
    9: And they that were there said, all with one voice: So be it, so be it. 
    10: But Judith praying to the Lord, passed through the gates, she and her maid.
    11: And it came to pass, when she went down the hill, about break of day, that the watchmen of the Assyrians met her and stopped her, saying: Whence comest thou? or whither goest thou? 
    12: And she answered: I am a daughter of the Hebrews, and I am fled from them, because I knew they would be made a prey to you, because they despised you, and would not of their own accord yield themselves, that they might find mercy in your sight. 
    13: For this reason I thought with myself, saying: I will go to the presence of the prince Holofernes, that I may tell him their secrets, and shew him by what way he may take them, without the loss of one man of his army. 
    14: And when the men had heard her words, they beheld her face, and their eyes were amazed, for they wondered exceedingly at her beauty. 
    15: And they said to her: Thou hast saved thy life by taking this resolution, to come down to our lord.
    16: And be assured of this, that when thou shalt stand before him, he will treat thee well, and thou wilt be most acceptable to his heart. And they brought her to the tent of Holofernes, telling him of her. 
    17: And when she was come into his presence, forthwith Holofernes was caught by his eyes. 
    18: And his officers said to him: Who can despise the people of the Hebrews who have such beautiful women, that we should not think it worth our while for their sakes to fight against them? 
    19: And Judith seeing Holofernes sitting under a canopy, which was woven of purple and gold, with emeralds and precious stones: 
    20: After she had looked on his face bowed down to him, prostrating herself to the ground. And the servants of Holofernes lifted her up, by the command of their master.

  Chapter 11.

    1: Then Holofernes said to her: Be of good comfort, and fear not in thy heart: for I have never hurt a man that was willing to serve Nabuchodonosor the king. 
    2: And if thy people had not despised me, I would never have lifted up my spear against them. 
    3: But now tell me, for what cause hast thou left them, and why it hath pleased thee to come to us? 
    4: And Judith said to him: Receive the words of thy handmaid, for if thou wilt follow the words of thy handmaid, the Lord will do with thee a perfect thing. 
    5: For as Nabuchodonosor the king of the earth liveth, and his power liveth which is in thee for chastising of all straying souls: not only men serve him through thee, but also the beasts of the field obey him.
    6: For the industry of thy mind is spoken of among all nations, and it is told through the whole world, that thou only art excellent, and mighty in all his kingdom, and thy discipline is cried up in all provinces. 
    7: It is known also what Achior said, nor are we ignorant of what thou hast commanded to be done to him. 
    8: For it is certain that our God is so offended with sins, that he hath sent word by his prophets to the people, that he will deliver them up for their sins. 
    9: And because the children of Israel know they have offended their God, thy dread is upon them. 
    10: Moreover also a famine hath come upon them, and for drought of water they are already to be counted among the dead.
    11: And they have a design even to kill their cattle, and to drink the blood of them. 
    12: And the consecrated things of the Lord their God which God forbade them to touch, in corn, wine, and oil, these have they purposed to make use of, and they design to consume the things which they ought not to touch with their hands: therefore because they do these things, it is certain they will be given up to destruction. 
    13: And I thy handmaid knowing this, am fled from them, and the Lord hath sent me to tell thee these very things. 
    14: For I thy handmaid worship God even now that I am with thee, and thy handmaid will go out, and I will pray to God, 
    15: And he will tell me when he will repay them for their sins, and I will come and tell thee, so that I may bring thee through the midst of Jerusalem, and thou shalt have all the people of Israel, as sheep that have no shepherd, and there shall not so much as one dog bark against thee:
    16: Because these things are told me by the providence of God. 
    17: And because God is angry with them, I am sent to tell these very things to thee. 
    18: And all these words pleased Holofernes, and his servants, and they admired her wisdom, and they said one to another: 
    19: There is not such another woman upon earth in look, in beauty, and in sense of words. 
    20: And Holofernes said to her: God hath done well who sent thee before the people, that thou mightest give them into our hands:
    21: And because thy promise is good, if thy God shall do this for me, he shall also be my God, and thou shalt be great in the house of Nabuchodonosor, and thy name shall be renowned through all the earth.

  Chapter 12.

    1: Then he ordered that she should go in where his treasures were laid up, and bade her tarry there, and he appointed what should be given her from his own table. 
    2: And Judith answered him and said: Now I cannot eat of these things which thou commandest to be given me, lest sin come upon me: but I will eat of the things which I have brought. 
    3: And Holofernes said to her: If these things which thou hast brought with thee fail thee, what shall we do for thee? 
    4: And Judith said: As thy soul liveth, my lord, thy handmaid shall not spend all these things till God do by my hand that which I have purposed. And his servants brought her into the tent which he had commanded. 
    5: And when she was going in, she desired that she might have liberty to go out at night and before day to prayer, and to beseech the Lord.
    6: And he commanded his chamberlains, that she might go out and in, to adore her God as she pleased, for three days. 
    7: And she went out in the nights into the valley of Bethulia, and washed herself in a fountain of water. 
    8: And as she came up, she prayed to the Lord the God of Israel, that he would direct her way to the deliverance of his people. 
    9: And going in, she remained pure in the tent, until she took her own meat in the evening. 
    10: And it came to pass on the fourth day, that Holofernes made a supper for his servants, and said to Vagao his eunuch: Go, and persuade that Hebrew woman, to consent of her own accord to dwell with me.
    11: For it is looked upon as shameful among the Assyrians, if a woman mock a man, by doing so as to pass free from him. 
    12: Then Vagao went in to Judith, and said: Let not my good maid be afraid to go in to my lord, that she may be honoured before his face, that she may eat with him and drink wine and be merry. 
    13: And Judith answered him: Who am I, that I should gainsay my lord? 
    14: All that shall be good and best before his eyes, I will do. And whatsoever shall please him, that shall be best to me all the days of my life. 
    15: And she arose and dressed herself out with her garments, and going in she stood before his face.
    16: And the heart of Holofernes was smitten, for he was burning with the desire of her. 
    17: And Holofernes said to her: Drink now, and sit down and be merry for thou hast found favour before me. 
    18: And Judith said: I will drink my lord, because my life is magnified this day above all my days. 
    19: And she took and ate and drank before him what her maid had prepared for her. 
    20: And Holofernes was made merry on her occasion, and drank exceeding much wine, so much as he had never drunk in his life.

End of day 119.