Day 51:

Reading Joshua, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: Now When these things were heard of, all the kings beyond the Jordan, that dwelt in the mountains and in the plains, in the places near the sea, and on the coasts of the great sea, they also that dwell by Libanus, the Hethite and the Amorrhite, the Chanaanite, the Pherezite, and the Hevite, and the Jebusite, 
    2: Gathered themselves together, to fight against Josue and Israel with one mind, and one resolution. 
    3: But they that dwelt in Gabaon, hearing all that Josue had done to Jericho and Hai: 
    4: Cunningly devising took for themselves provisions, laying old sacks upon their asses, and wine bottles rent and sewed up again, 
    5: And very old shoes, which for a shew of age were clouted with patches, and old garments upon them: the leaves also, which they carried for provisions by the way, were hard, and broken into pieces:
    6: And they went to Josue, who then abode in the camp at Galgal, and said to him, and to all Israel with him: We are come from a far country, desiring to make peace with you. And the children of Israel answered them, and said: 
    7: Perhaps you dwell in the land which falls to our lot; if so, we can make no league with you. 
    8: But they said to Josue: We are thy servants. Josue said to them: Who are you? and whence came you? 
    9: They answered: From a very far country thy servants are come in the name of the Lord thy God. For we have heard the fame of his power, all the things that he did in Egypt. 
    10: And to the two kings of the Amorrhites that were beyond the Jordan, Sehon king of Hesebon, and Og king of Basan, that was in Astaroth:
    11: And our ancients, and all the inhabitants of our country said to us: Take with you victuals for a long way, and go meet them, and say: We are your servants, make ye a league with us. 
    12: Behold, these leaves we took hot, when we set out from our houses to come to you, now they are become dry, and broken in pieces, by being exceeding old. 
    13: These bottles of wine when we filled them were new, now they are rent and burst. These garments we have on, and the shoes we have on our feet, by reason of the very long journey are worn out, and almost consumed. 
    14: They took therefore of their victuals, and consulted not the mouth of the Lord. 
    15: And Josue made peace with them, and entering into a league promised that they should not be slain: the princes also of the multitude swore to them.
    16: Now three days after the league was made, they heard that they dwelt nigh, and they should be among them. 
    17: And the children of Israel removed the camp, and came into their cities on the third day, the names of which are Gabaon, and Caphira, and Beroth, and Cariathiarim. 
    18: And they slew them not, because the princes of the multitude had sworn in the name of the Lord the God of Israel. Then all the common people murmured against the princes. 
    19: And they answered them: We have sworn to them in the name of the Lord the God of Israel, and therefore we may not touch them. 
    20: But this we mill do to them: Let their lives be saved, lest the wrath of the Lord be stirred up against us, if we should be forsworn.
    21: But so let them live, as to serve the whole multitude in hewing wood, and bringing in water. As they were speaking these things, 
    22: Josue called the Gabaonites and said to them: Why would you impose upon us, saying: We dwell far off from you, whereas you are in the midst of us? 
    23: Therefore you shall be under a curse, and your race shall always be hewers of wood, and carriers of water unto the house of my God. 
    24: They answered: It was told us thy servants, that the Lord thy God had promised his servant Moses to give you all the land, and to destroy all the inhabitants thereof. Therefore we feared exceedingly and provided for our lives. compelled by the dread we had of you and we took this counsel. 
    25: And now we are in thy hand: deal with us as it seemeth good and right unto thee.
    26: So Josue did as he had said, and delivered them from the hand of the children of Israel, that they should not be slain. 
    27: And he gave orders in that day that they should be in the service of all the people, and of the altar of the Lord, hewing wood and carrying water, until this present time, in the place which the Lord hath chosen.

  Chapter 10.

    1: When Adonisedec king of Jerusalem had heard these things, to wit, that Josue had taken Hai, and had destroyed it, (for as he had done to Jericho and the king thereof, so did he to Hai, and its king,) and that the Gabaonites were gone over to Israel, and were their confederates, 
    2: He was exceedingly afraid. For Gabaon was a great city, and one of the royal cities, and greater than the town of Hai, and all its fighting men were most valiant. 
    3: Therefore Adonisedec king of Jerusalem sent to Oham king of Hebron, and to Pharam king of Jerimoth, and to Japhia king of Lachis, and to Dabir king of Eglon, saying: 
    4: Come up to me, and bring help, that we may take Gabaon, because it hath gone over to Josue, and to the children of Israel. 
    5: So the five kings of the Amorrhites being assembled together went up: the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the king of Jerimoth, the king of Lachis, the king of Eglon, they and their armies, and camped about Gabaon, laying siege to it.
    6: But the inhabitants of the city of Gabaon which was besieged, sent to Josue, who then abode in the camp at Galgal, and said to him: Withdraw not thy hands from helping thy servants: come up quickly and save us, and bring us succour: for all the kings of the Amorrhites, who dwell in the mountains, are gathered together against us. 
    7: And Josue went up from Galgal, and all the army of the warriors with him, most valiant men. 
    8: And the Lord said to Josue: Fear them not: for I have delivered them into thy hands: none of them shall be able to stand against thee. 
    9: So Josue going up from Galgal all the night, came upon them suddenly. 
    10: And the Lord troubled them at the sight of Israel: and he slew them with a great slaughter in Gabaon, and pursued them by the way of the ascent to Beth-horon, and cut them off all the way to Azeca and Maceda.
    11: And when they were fleeing from the children of Israel, and were in the descent of Beth-horon, the Lord cast down upon them great stones from heaven as far as Azeca: and many more were killed with the hailstones than were slain by the swords of the children of Israel. 
    12: Then Josue spoke to the Lord, in the day that he delivered the Amorrhite in the sight of the children of Israel, and he said before them: Move not, O sun, toward Gabaon, nor thou, O moon, toward the valley of Ajalon. 
    13: And the sun and the moon stood still, till the people revenged themselves of their enemies. Is not this written in the book of the just? So the sun stood still in the midst of heaven, and hasted not to go down the space of one day. 
    14: There was not before nor after so long a day, the Lord obeying the voice of a man, and fighting for Israel. 
    15: And Josue returned with all Israel into the camp of Galgal.
    16: For the five kings were fled, and had hidden themselves in a cave of the city of Maceda. 
    17: And it was told Josue that the five kings were found hidden in a cave of the city of Maceda. 
    18: And he commanded them that were with him, saying: Roll great stones to the mouth of the cave, and set careful men, to keep them shut up: 
    19: And stay you not, but pursue after the enemies, and kill all the hindermost of them as they flee, and do not suffer them whom the Lord God hath delivered into your hands to shelter themselves in their cities. 
    20: So the enemies being slain with a great slaughter, and almost utterly consumed, they that were able to escape from Israel, entered into fenced cities.
    21: And all the army returned to Josue in Maceda, where the camp then was, in good health and without the loss of any one: and no man durst move his tongue against the children of Israel. 
    22: And Josue gave orders, saying: Open the mouth of the cave, and bring forth to me the five kings that lie hid therein. 
    23: And the ministers did as they were commanded: and they brought out to him the five kings out of the cave: the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the king of Jerimoth, the king of Lachis, the king of Eglon. 
    24: And when they were Drought out to him, he called all the men of Israel, and said to the chiefs of the army that were with him: Go, and set your feet on the necks of these kings. And when they had gone, and put their feet upon the necks of them lying under them, 
    25: He said again to them: Fear not, neither be ye dismayed, take courage and be strong: for so will the Lord do to all your enemies, against whom you fight.
    26: And Josue struck, and slew them, and hanged them upon five gibbets, and they hung until the evening. 
    27: And when the sun was down, he commanded the soldiers to take them down from the gibbets. And after they were taken down, they cast them into the cave where they had lain hid, and put great stones at the mouth thereof, which remain until this day. 
    28: The same day Josue took Maceda and destroyed it, with the edge of the sword, and killed the king and all the inhabitants thereof: he left not in it the least remains. And he did to the king of Maceda, as he had done to the king of Jericho. 
    29: And he passed from Maceda with all Israel to Lebna, and fought against it: 
    30: And the Lord delivered it with the king thereof into the hands of Israel: and they destroyed the city with the edge of the sword, and all the inhabitants thereof. They left not in it any remains. And they did to the king of Lebna, as they had done to the king of Jericho.
    31: From Lebna he passed unto Lachis, with all Israel: and investing it with his army, besieged it. 
    32: And the Lord delivered Lachis into the hands of Israel, and he took it the following day, and put it to the sword, and every soul that was in it, as he had done to Lebna. 
    33: At that time Horam king of Gazer, came up to succour Lachis: and Josue slew him with all his people, so as to leave none alive. 
    34: And he passed from Lachis to Eglon, and surrounded it, 
    35: And took it the same day: and put to the sword all the souls that were in it, according to all that he had done to Lachis.
    36: He went up also with all Israel from Eglon to Hebron, and fought against it: 
    37: Took it, and destroyed it with the edge of the sword: the king also thereof, and all the towns of that country, and all the souls that dwelt in it: he left not therein any remains: as he had done to Eglon, so did he also to Hebron, putting to the sword all that he found in it. 
    38: Returning from thence to Dabir, 
    39: He took it and destroyed it: the king also thereof and all the towns round about he destroyed with the edge of the sword: he left not in it any remains: as he had done to Hebron and Lebna and to their kings, so did he to Dabir and to the king thereof. 
    40: So Josue conquered all the country of the hills and of the south and of the plain, and of Asedoth, with their kings: he left not any remains therein, but slew all that breathed, as the Lord the God of Israel had commanded him,
    41: From Cadesbarne even to Gaza. All the land of Gosen even to Gabaon, 
    42: And all their kings, and their lands he took and wasted at one onset: for the Lord the God of Israel fought for him. 
    43: And he returned with all Israel to the place of the camp in Galgal.

  Chapter 11.

    1: And when Jabin king of Asor had heard these things, he sent to Jobab king of Madon, and to the king of Semeron, and to the king of Achsaph: 
    2: And to the kings of the north, that dwelt in the mountains and in the plains over against the south side of Ceneroth, and in the levels and the countries of Dor by the sea side: 
    3: To the Chanaanites also on the ease and on the west, and the Amorrhite, and the Hethite, and the Pherezite, and the Jebusite in the mountains: to the Hevite also who dwelt at the foot of Hermon in the land of Maspha. 
    4: And they all came out with their troops, a people exceeding numerous as the sand that is on the sea shore, their horses also and chariots a very great multitude, 
    5: And all these kings assembled together at the waters of Merom, to fight against Israel.
    6: And the Lord said to Josue: Fear them not: for tomorrow at this same hour I will deliver all these to be slain in the sight of Israel: thou shalt hamstring their horses, and thou shalt burn their chariots with fire. 
    7: And Josue came, and all the army with him, against them to the waters of Merom on a sudden, and fell upon them. 
    8: And the Lord delivered them into the hands of Israel. And they defeated them, and chased them as far as the great Sidon, and the waters of Maserophot, and the field of Masphe, which is on the east side thereof. He slew them all, so as to leave no remains of them: 
    9: And he did as the Lord had commanded him, he hamstringed their horses and burned their chariots. 
    10: And presently turning back he took Asor: and slew the king thereof with the sword. Now Asor of old was the head of all these kingdoms.
    11: And he cut off all the souls that abode there: he left not in it any remains, but utterly destroyed all, and burned the city itself with fire. 
    12: And he took and put to the sword and destroyed all the cities round about, and their kings, as Moses the servant of God had commanded him. 
    13: Except the cities that were on hills and high places, the rest Israel burned: only Asor that was very strong he consumed with fire. 
    14: And the children of Israel divided among themselves all the spoil of these cities and the cattle, killing all the men. 
    15: As the Lord had commanded Moses his servant, so did Moses command Josue, and he accomplished all: he left not one thing undone of all the commandments which the Lord had commanded Moses.
    16: So Josue took all the country of the hills, and of the south, and the land of Gosen, and the plains and the west country, and the mountain of Israel, and the plains thereof: 
    17: And part of the mountain that goeth up to Seir as far as Baalgad, by the plain of Libanus under mount Hermon: all their kings he took, smote and slew. 
    18: Josue made war a long time against these kings. 
    19: There was not a city that delivered itself to the children of Israel, except the Hevite, who dwelt in Gabaon: for he took all by fight. 
    20: For it was the sentence of the Lord, that their hearts should be hardened, and they should fight against Israel, and fall, and should not deserve any clemency, and should be destroyed as the Lord had commanded Moses.
    21: At that time Josue came and cut off the Enacims from the mountains, from Hebron, and Dabir, and Anab, and from all the mountain of Juda and Israel, and destroyed their cities. 
    22: He left not any of the stock of the Enacims, in the land of the children of Israel: except the cities of Gaza, and Geth, and Azotus, in which alone they were left. 
    23: So Josue took all the land, as the Lord spoke to Moses, and delivered it in possession to the children of Israel, according to their divisions and tribes. And the land rested from wars.

  Chapter 12.

    1: These are the kings, whom the children of Israel slew and possessed their land beyond the Jordan towards the rising of the sun, from the torrent Arnon unto mount Hermon, and all the east country that looketh towards the wilderness. 
    2: Sehon king of the Amorrhites, who dwelt in Hesebon, and had dominion from Aroer, which is seated upon the bank of the torrent Arnon, and of the middle part in the valley, and of half Galaad, as far as the torrent Jaboc, which is the border of the children of Ammon. 
    3: And from the wilderness, to the sea of Ceneroth towards the east, and to the sea of the wilderness, which is the most salt sea, on the east side by the way that leadeth to Bethsimoth: and on the south side that lieth under Asedoth, Phasga. 
    4: The border of Og the king of Basan, of the remnant of the Raphaims who dwelt in Astaroth, and in Edrai, and had dominion in mount Hermon, and in Salecha, and in all Basan, unto the borders 
    5: Of Gessuri and Machati, and of half Galaad: the borders of Sehon the king of Hesebon.
    6: Moses the servant of the Lord, and the children of Israel slew them, and Moses delivered their land in possession to the Rubenites, and Gadites, and the half tribe of Manasses. 
    7: These are the kings of the land, whom Josue and the children of Israel slew beyond the Jordan on the west side from Baalgad in the held of Libanus, unto the mount, part of which goeth up into Seir: and Josue delivered it in possession to the tribes of Israel, to every one their divisions, 
    8: As well in the mountains as in the plains and the champaign countries. In Asedoth, and in the wilderness, and in the south was the Hethite and the Amorrhite, the Chanaanite and the Pherezite, the Hevite and the Jebusite. 
    9: The king of Jericho one: the king of Hai, which is on the side of Bethel, one: 
    10: The king of Jerusalem one, the king of Hebron one.
    11: The king of Jerimoth one, the king of Lachis one, 
    12: The king of Eglon one, the king of Gazer one, 
    13: The king of Dabir one, the king of Gader one, 
    14: The king of Herma one, the king of Hered one, 
    15: The king of Lebna one, the king of Odullam one,
    16: The king of Maceda one, the king of Bethel one, 
    17: The king of Taphua one, the king of Opher one, 
    18: The king of Aphec one, the king of Saron one, 
    19: The king of Madon one, the king of Asor one, 
    20: The king of Semeron one, the king of Achsaph one,
    21: The king of Thenac one, the king of Megeddo one, 
    22: The king of Cades one, the king of Jachanan of Carmel one, 
    23: The king of Dor, and of the province of Dor one, the king of the nations of Galgal one, 
    24: The king of Thersa one: all the kings thirty and one.

End of day 51.