Day 297:

Reading Luke, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: Then calling together the twelve apostles, he gave them power and authority over all devils, and to cure diseases. 
    2: And he sent them to preach the kingdom of God, and to heal the sick. 
    3: And he said to them: Take nothing for your journey; neither staff, nor scrip, nor bread, nor money; neither have two coats. 
    4: And whatsoever house you shall enter into, abide there, and depart not from thence. 
    5: And whosoever will not receive you, when ye go out of that city, shake off even the dust of your feet, for a testimony against them.
    6: And going out, they went about through the towns, preaching the gospel, and healing everywhere. 
    7: Now Herod, the tetrarch, heard of all things that were done by him; and he was in a doubt, because it was said 
    8: By some, that John was risen from the dead: but by other some, that Elias had appeared; and by others, that one of the old prophets was risen again. 
    9: And Herod said: John I have beheaded; but who is this of whom I hear such things? And he sought to see him. 
    10: And the apostles, when they were returned, told him all they had done. And taking them, he went aside into a desert place, apart, which belongeth to Bethsaida.
    11: Which when the people knew, they followed him; and he received them, and spoke to them of the kingdom of God, and healed them who had need of healing. 
    12: Now the day began to decline. And the twelve came and said to him: Send away the multitude, that going into the towns and villages round about, they may lodge and get victuals; for we are here in a desert place. 
    13: But he said to them: Give you them to eat. And they said: We have no more than five loaves and two fishes; unless perhaps we should go and buy food for all this multitude. 
    14: Now there were about five thousand men. And he said to his disciples: Make them sit down by fifties in a company. 
    15: And they did so; and made them all sit down.
    16: And taking the five loaves and the two fishes, he looked up to heaven, and blessed them; and he broke, and distributed to his disciples, to set before the multitude. 
    17: And they did all eat, and were filled. And there were taken up of fragments that remained to them, twelve baskets. 
    18: And it came to pass, as he was alone praying, his disciples also were with him: and he asked them, saying: Whom do the people say that I am? 
    19: But they answered, and said: John the Baptist; but some say Elias; and others say that one of the former prophets is risen again. 
    20: And he said to them: But whom do you say that I am? Simon Peter answering, said: The Christ of God.
    21: But he strictly charging them, commanded they should tell this to no man. 
    22: Saying: The Son of man must suffer many things, and be rejected by the ancients and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and the third day rise again. 
    23: And he said to all: If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross daily, and follow me. 
    24: For whosoever will save his life, shall lose it; for he that shall lose his life for my sake, shall save it. 
    25: For what is a man advantaged, if he gain the whole world, and lose himself, and cast away himself?
    26: For he that shall be ashamed of me and of my words, of him the Son of man shall be ashamed, when he shall come in his majesty, and that of his Father, and of the holy angels. 
    27: But I tell you of a truth: There are some standing here that shall not taste death, till they see the kingdom of God. 
    28: And it came to pass about eight days after these words, that he took Peter, and James, and John, and went up into a mountain to pray. 
    29: And whilst he prayed, the shape of his countenance was altered, and his raiment became white and glittering. 
    30: And behold two men were talking with him. And they were Moses and Elias,
    31: Appearing in majesty. And they spoke of his decease that he should accomplish in Jerusalem. 
    32: But Peter and they that were with him were heavy with sleep. And waking, they saw his glory, and the two men that stood with him. 
    33: And it came to pass, that as they were departing from him, Peter saith to Jesus: Master, it is good for us to be here; and let us make three tabernacles, one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias; not knowing what he said. 
    34: And as he spoke these things, there came a cloud, and overshadowed them; and they were afraid, when they entered into the cloud. 
    35: And a voice came out of the cloud, saying: This is my beloved Son; hear him.
    36: And whilst the voice was uttered, Jesus was found alone. And they held their peace, and told no man in those days any of these things which they had seen. 
    37: And it came to pass the day following, when they came down from the mountain, there met him a great multitude. 
    38: And behold a man among the crowd cried out, saying: Master, I beseech thee, look upon my son, because he is my only one. 
    39: And lo, a spirit seizeth him, and he suddenly crieth out, and he throweth him down and teareth him, so that he foameth; and bruising him, he hardly departeth from him. 
    40: And I desired thy disciples to cast him out, and they could not.
    41: And Jesus answering, said: O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you, and suffer you? Bring hither thy son. 
    42: And as he was coming to him, the devil threw him down, and tore him. 
    43: And Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit, and cured the boy, and restored him to his father. 
    44: And all were astonished at the mighty power of God. But while all wondered at all the things he did, he said to his disciples: Lay you up in your hearts these words, for it shall come to pass, that the Son of man shall be delivered into the hands of men. 
    45: But they understood not this word; and it was hid from them, so that they perceived it not. And they were afraid to ask him concerning this word.
    46: And there entered a thought into them, which of them should be greater. 
    47: But Jesus seeing the thoughts of their heart, took a child and set him by him, 
    48: And said to them: Whosoever shall receive this child in my name, receiveth me; and whosoever shall receive me, receiveth him that sent me. For he that is the lesser among you all, he is the greater. 
    49: And John, answering, said: Master, we saw a certain man casting out devils in thy name, and we forbade him, because he followeth not with us. 
    50: And Jesus said to him: Forbid him not; for he that is not against you, is for you.
    51: And it came to pass, when the days of his assumption were accomplishing, that he steadfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem. 
    52: And he sent messengers before his face; and going, they entered into a city of the Samaritans, to prepare for him. 
    53: And they received him not, because his face was of one going to Jerusalem. 
    54: And when his disciples James and John had seen this, they said: Lord, wilt thou that we command fire to come down from heaven, and consume them? 
    55: And turning, he rebuked them, saying: You know not of what spirit you are.
    56: The Son of man came not to destroy souls, but to save. And they went into another town. 
    57: And it came to pass, as they walked in the way, that a certain man said to him: I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest. 
    58: Jesus said to him: The foxes have holes, and the birds of the air nests; but the Son of man hath not where to lay his head. 
    59: But he said to another: Follow me. And he said: Lord, suffer me first to go, and to bury my father. 
    60: And Jesus said to him: Let the dead bury their dead: but go thou, and preach the kingdom of God.
    61: And another said: I will follow thee, Lord; but let me first take my leave of them that are at my house. 
    62: Jesus said to him: No man putting his hand to the plough, and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God.

  Chapter 10.

    1: And after these things the Lord appointed also other seventy-two: and he sent them two and two before his face into every city and place whither he himself was to come. 
    2: And he said to them: The harvest indeed is great, but the labourers are few. Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he send labourers into his harvest. 
    3: Go: Behold I send you as lambs among wolves. 
    4: Carry neither purse, nor scrip, nor shoes; and salute no man by the way. 
    5: Into whatsoever house you enter, first say: Peace be to this house.
    6: And if the son of peace be there, your peace shall rest upon him; but if not, it shall return to you. 
    7: And in the same house, remain, eating and drinking such things as they have: for the labourer is worthy of his hire. Remove not from house to house. 
    8: And into what city soever you enter, and they receive you, eat such things as are set before you. 
    9: And heal the sick that are therein, and say to them: The kingdom of God is come nigh unto you. 
    10: But into whatsoever city you enter, and they receive you not, going forth into the streets thereof, say:
    11: Even the very dust of your city that cleaveth to us, we wipe off against you. Yet know this, that the kingdom of God is at hand. 
    12: I say to you, it shall be more tolerable at that day for Sodom, than for that city. 
    13: Woe to thee, Corozain, woe to thee, Bethsaida. For if in Tyre and Sidon had been wrought the mighty works that have been wrought in you, they would have done penance long ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes. 
    14: But it shall be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon at the judgment, than for you. 
    15: And thou, Capharnaum, which art exalted unto heaven, thou shalt be thrust down to hell.
    16: He that heareth you, heareth me; and he that despiseth you, despiseth me; and he that despiseth me, despiseth him that sent me. 
    17: And the seventy-two returned with joy, saying: Lord, the devils also are subject to us in thy name. 
    18: And he said to them: I saw Satan like lightning falling from heaven. 
    19: Behold, I have given you power to tread upon serpents and scorpions, and upon all the power of the enemy: and nothing shall hurt you. 
    20: But yet rejoice not in this, that spirits are subject unto you; but rejoice in this, that your names are written in heaven.
    21: In that same hour, he rejoiced in the Holy Ghost, and said: I confess to thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because thou hast hidden these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them to little ones. Yea, Father, for so it hath seemed good in thy sight. 
    22: All things are delivered to me by my Father; and no one knoweth who the Son is, but the Father; and who the Father is, but the Son, and to whom the Son will reveal him. 
    23: And turning to his disciples, he said: Blessed are the eyes that see the things which you see. 
    24: For I say to you, that many prophets and kings have desired to see the things that you see, and have not seen them; and to hear the things that you hear, and have not heard them. 
    25: And behold a certain lawyer stood up, tempting him, and saying, Master, what must I do to possess eternal life?
    26: But he said to him: What is written in the law? how readest thou? 
    27: He answering, said: Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with thy whole heart, and with thy whole soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind: and thy neighbour as thyself. 
    28: And he said to him: Thou hast answered right: this do, and thou shalt live. 
    29: But he willing to justify himself, said to Jesus: And who is my neighbour? 
    30: And Jesus answering, said: A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among robbers, who also stripped him, and having wounded him went away, leaving him half dead.
    31: And it chanced, that a certain priest went down the same way: and seeing him, passed by. 
    32: In like manner also a Levite, when he was near the place and saw him, passed by. 
    33: But a certain Samaritan being on his journey, came near him; and seeing him, was moved with compassion. 
    34: And going up to him, bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine: and setting him upon his own beast, brought him to an inn, and took care of him. 
    35: And the next day he took out two pence, and gave to the host, and said: Take care of him; and whatsoever thou shalt spend over and above, I, at my return, will repay thee.
    36: Which of these three, in thy opinion, was neighbour to him that fell among the robbers? 
    37: But he said: He that shewed mercy to him. And Jesus said to him: Go, and do thou in like manner. 
    38: Now it came to pass as they went, that he entered into a certain town: and a certain woman named Martha, received him into her house. 
    39: And she had a sister called Mary, who sitting also at the Lord's feet, heard his word. 
    40: But Martha was busy about much serving. Who stood and said: Lord, hast thou no care that my sister hath left me alone to serve? speak to her therefore, that she help me.
    41: And the Lord answering, said to her: Martha, Martha, thou art careful, and art troubled about many things: 
    42: But one thing is necessary. Mary hath chosen the best part, which shall not be taken away from her.

  Chapter 11.

    1: And it came to pass, that as he was in a certain place praying, when he ceased, one of his disciples said to him: Lord, teach us to pray, as John also taught his disciples. 
    2: And he said to them: When you pray, say: Father, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. 
    3: Give us this day our daily bread. 
    4: And forgive us our sins, for we also forgive every one that is indebted to us. And lead us not into temptation. 
    5: And he said to them: Which of you shall have a friend, and shall go to him at midnight, and shall say to him: Friend, lend me three loaves,
    6: Because a friend of mine is come off his journey to me, and I have not what to set before him. 
    7: And he from within should answer, and say: Trouble me not, the door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed; I cannot rise and give thee. 
    8: Yet if he shall continue knocking, I say to you, although he will not rise and give him, because he is his friend; yet, because of his importunity, he will rise, and give him as many as he needeth. 
    9: And I say to you, Ask, and it shall be given you: seek, and you shall find: knock, and it shall be opened to you. 
    10: For every one that asketh, receiveth; and he that seeketh, findeth; and to him that knocketh, it shall be opened.
    11: And which of you, if he ask his father bread, will he give him a stone? or a fish, will he for a fish give him a serpent? 
    12: Or if he shall ask an egg, will he reach him a scorpion? 
    13: If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father from heaven give the good Spirit to them that ask him? 
    14: And he was casting out a devil, and the same was dumb: and when he had cast out the devil, the dumb spoke: and the multitudes were in admiration at it: 
    15: But some of them said: He casteth out devils by Beelzebub, the prince of devils.
    16: And others tempting, asked of him a sign from heaven. 
    17: But he seeing their thoughts, said to them: Every kingdom divided against itself, shall be brought to desolation, and house upon house shall fall. 
    18: And if Satan also be divided against himself, how shall his kingdom stand? because you say, that through Beelzebub I cast out devils. 
    19: Now if I cast out devils by Beelzebub; by whom do your children cast them out? Therefore they shall be your judges. 
    20: But if I by the finger of God cast out devils; doubtless the kingdom of God is come upon you.
    21: When a strong man armed keepeth his court, those things are in peace which he possesseth. 
    22: But if a stronger than he come upon him, and overcome him; he will take away all his armour wherein he trusted, and will distribute his spoils. 
    23: He that is not with me, is against me; and he that gathereth not with me, scattereth. 
    24: When the unclean spirit is gone out of a man, he walketh through places without water, seeking rest; and not finding, he saith: I will return into my house whence I came out. 
    25: And when he is come, he findeth it swept and garnished.
    26: Then he goeth and taketh with him seven other spirits more wicked than himself, and entering in they dwell there. And the last state of that man becomes worse than the first. 
    27: And it came to pass, as he spoke these things, a certain woman from the crowd, lifting up her voice, said to him: Blessed is the womb that bore thee, and the paps that gave thee suck. 
    28: But he said: Yea rather, blessed are they who hear the word of God, and keep it. 
    29: And the multitudes running together, he began to say: This generation is a wicked generation: it asketh a sign, and a sign shall not be given it, but the sign of Jonas the prophet. 
    30: For as Jonas was a sign to the Ninivites; so shall the Son of man also be to this generation.
    31: The queen of the south shall rise in the judgment with the men of this generation, and shall condemn them: because she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and behold more than Solomon here. 
    32: The men of Ninive shall rise in the judgment with this generation, and shall condemn it; because they did penance at the preaching of Jonas; and behold more than Jonas here. 
    33: No man lighteth a candle, and putteth it in a hidden place, nor under a bushel; but upon a candlestick, that they that come in, may see the light. 
    34: The light of thy body is thy eye. If thy eye be single, thy whole body will be lightsome: but if it be evil, thy body also will be darksome. 
    35: Take heed therefore, that the light which is in thee, be not darkness.
    36: If then thy whole body be lightsome, having no part of darkness; the whole shall be lightsome; and as a bright lamp, shall enlighten thee. 
    37: And as he was speaking, a certain Pharisee prayed him, that he would dine with him. And he going in, sat down to eat. 
    38: And the Pharisee began to say, thinking within himself, why he was not washed before dinner. 
    39: And the Lord said to him: Now you Pharisees make clean the outside of the cup and of the platter; but your inside is full of rapine and iniquity. 
    40: Ye fools, did not he that made that which is without, make also that which is within?
    41: But yet that which remaineth, give alms; and behold, all things are clean unto you. 
    42: But woe to you, Pharisees, because you tithe mint and rue and every herb; and pass over judgment, and the charity of God. Now these things you ought to have done, and not to leave the other undone. 
    43: Woe to you, Pharisees, because you love the uppermost seats in the synagogues, and salutations in the marketplace. 
    44: Woe to you, because you are as sepulchres that appear not, and men that walk over are not aware. 
    45: And one of the lawyers answering, saith to him: Master, in saying these things, thou reproachest us also.
    46: But he said: Woe to you lawyers also, because you load men with burdens which they cannot bear, and you yourselves touch not the packs with one of your fingers. 
    47: Woe to you who build the monuments of the prophets: and your fathers killed them. 
    48: Truly you bear witness that you consent to the doings of your fathers: for they indeed killed them, and you build their sepulchres. 
    49: For this cause also the wisdom of God said: I will send to them prophets and apostles; and some of them they will kill and persecute. 
    50: That the blood of all the prophets which was shed from the foundation of the world, may be required of this generation,
    51: From the blood of Abel unto the blood of Zacharias, who was slain between the altar and the temple: Yea I say to you, It shall be required of this generation. 
    52: Woe to you lawyers, for you have taken away the key of knowledge: you yourselves have not entered in, and those that were entering in, you have hindered. 
    53: And as he was saying these things to them, the Pharisees and the lawyers began violently to urge him, and to oppress his mouth about many things, 
    54: Lying in wait for him, and seeking to catch something from his mouth, that they might accuse him.

  Chapter 12.

    1: And when great multitudes stood about him, so that they trod one upon another, he began to say to his disciples: Beware ye of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. 
    2: For there is nothing covered, that shall not be revealed: nor hidden, that shall not be known. 
    3: For whatsoever things you have spoken in darkness, shall be published in the light: and that which you have spoken in the ear in the chambers, shall be preached on the housetops. 
    4: And I say to you, my friends: Be not afraid of them who kill the body, and after that have no more that they can do. 
    5: But I will shew you whom you shall fear: fear ye him, who after he hath killed, hath power to cast into hell. Yea, I say to you, fear him.
    6: Are not five sparrows sold for two farthings, and not one of them is forgotten before God? 
    7: Yea, the very hairs of your head are all numbered. Fear not therefore: you are of more value than many sparrows. 
    8: And I say to you, Whosoever shall confess me before men, him shall the Son of man also confess before the angels of God. 
    9: But he that shall deny me before men, shall be denied before the angels of God. 
    10: And whosoever speaketh a word against the Son of man, it shall be forgiven him: but to him that shall blaspheme against the Holy Ghost, it shall not be forgiven.
    11: And when they shall bring you into the synagogues, and to magistrates and powers, be not solicitous how or what you shall answer, or what you shall say; 
    12: For the Holy Ghost shall teach you in the same hour what you must say. 
    13: And one of the multitude said to him: Master, speak to my brother that he divide the inheritance with me. 
    14: But he said to him: Man, who hath appointed me judge, or divider, over you? 
    15: And he said to them: Take heed and beware of all covetousness; for a man's life doth not consist in the abundance of things which he possesseth.
    16: And he spoke a similitude to them, saying: The land of a certain rich man brought forth plenty of fruits. 
    17: And he thought within himself, saying: What shall I do, because I have no room where to bestow my fruits? 
    18: And he said: This will I do: I will pull down my barns, and will build greater; and into them will I gather all things that are grown to me, and my goods. 
    19: And I will say to my soul: Soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years take thy rest; eat, drink, make good cheer. 
    20: But God said to him: Thou fool, this night do they require thy soul of thee: and whose shall those things be which thou hast provided?
    21: So is he that layeth up treasure for himself, and is not rich towards God. 
    22: And he said to his disciples: Therefore I say to you, be not solicitous for your life, what you shall eat; nor for your body, what you shall put on. 
    23: The life is more than the meat, and the body is more than the raiment. 
    24: Consider the ravens, for they sow not, neither do they reap, neither have they storehouse nor barn, and God feedeth them. How much are you more valuable than they? 
    25: And which of you, by taking thought, can add to his stature one cubit?
    26: If then ye be not able to do so much as the least thing, why are you solicitous for the rest? 
    27: Consider the lilies, how they grow: they labour not, neither do they spin. But I say to you, not even Solomon in all his glory was clothed like one of these. 
    28: Now if God clothe in this manner the grass that is today in the field, and tomorrow is cast into the oven; how much more you, O ye of little faith? 
    29: And seek not you what you shall eat, or what you shall drink: and be not lifted up on high. 
    30: For all these things do the nations of the world seek. But your Father knoweth that you have need of these things.
    31: But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his justice, and all these things shall be added unto you. 
    32: Fear not, little flock, for it hath pleased your Father to give you a kingdom. 
    33: Sell what you possess and give alms. Make to yourselves bags which grow not old, a treasure in heaven which faileth not: where no thief approacheth, nor moth corrupteth. 
    34: For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. 
    35: Let your loins be girt, and lamps burning in your hands.
    36: And you yourselves like to men who wait for their lord, when he shall return from the wedding; that when he cometh and knocketh, they may open to him immediately. 
    37: Blessed are those servants, whom the Lord when he cometh, shall find watching. Amen I say to you, that he will gird himself, and make them sit down to meat, and passing will minister unto them. 
    38: And if he shall come in the second watch, or come in the third watch, and find them so, blessed are those servants. 
    39: But this know ye, that if the householder did know at what hour the thief would come, he would surely watch, and would not suffer his house to be broken open. 
    40: Be you then also ready: for at what hour you think not, the Son of man will come.
    41: And Peter said to him: Lord, dost thou speak this parable to us, or likewise to all? 
    42: And the Lord said: Who (thinkest thou) is the faithful and wise steward, whom his lord setteth over his family, to give them their measure of wheat in due season? 
    43: Blessed is that servant, whom when his lord shall come, he shall find so doing. 
    44: Verily I say to you, he will set him over all that he possesseth. 
    45: But if that servant shall say in his heart: My lord is long a coming; and shall begin to strike the menservants and maidservants, and to eat and to drink and be drunk:
    46: The lord of that servant will come in the day that he hopeth not, and at the hour that he knoweth not, and shall separate him, and shall appoint him his portion with unbelievers. 
    47: And that servant who knew the will of his lord, and prepared not himself, and did not according to his will, shall be beaten with many stripes. 
    48: But he that knew not, and did things worthy of stripes, shall be beaten with few stripes. And unto whomsoever much is given, of him much shall be required: and to whom they have committed much, of him they will demand the more. 
    49: I am come to cast fire on the earth; and what will I, but that it be kindled? 
    50: And I have a baptism wherewith I am to be baptized: and how am I straitened until it be accomplished?
    51: Think ye, that I am come to give peace on earth? I tell you, no; but separation. 
    52: For there shall be from henceforth five in one house divided: three against two, and two against three. 
    53: The father shall be divided against the son, and the son against his father, the mother against the daughter, and the daughter against the mother, the mother in law against her daughter in law, and the daughter in law against her mother in law. 
    54: And he said also to the multitudes: When you see a cloud rising from the west, presently you say: A shower is coming: and so it happeneth: 
    55: And when ye see the south wind blow, you say: There will be heat: and it cometh to pass.
    56: You hypocrites, you know how to discern the face of the heaven and of the earth: but how is it that you do not discern this time? 
    57: And why even of yourselves, do you not judge that which is just? 
    58: And when thou goest with thy adversary to the prince, whilst thou art in the way, endeavour to be delivered from him: lest perhaps he draw thee to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to the exacter, and the exacter cast thee into prison. 
    59: I say to thee, thou shalt not go out thence, until thou pay the very last mite.

End of day 297.