Day 268:

Reading Amos, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: The words of Amos, who was among herdsmen of Thecua: which he saw concerning Israel in the days of Ozias king of Juda, and in the days of Jeroboam the son of Joas king of Israel two years before the earthquake. 
    2: And he said: The Lord will roar from Sion, and utter his voice from Jerusalem: and the beautiful places of the shepherds have mourned, and the top of Carmel is withered. 
    3: Thus saith the Lord: For three crimes of Damascus, and for four I will not convert it: because they have thrashed Galaad with iron wains. 
    4: And I will send a fire into the house of Azael, and it shall devour the houses of Benadad. 
    5: And I will break the bar of Damascus: and I will cut off the inhabitants from the plain of the idol, and him that holdeth the sceptre from the house of pleasure: and the people of Syria shall be carried away to Cyrene, saith the Lord.
    6: Thus saith the Lord: For three crimes of Gaza, and for four I will not convert it: because they have carried away a perfect captivity to shut them up in Edom. 
    7: And I will send a fire on the wall of Gaza, and it shall devour the houses thereof. 
    8: And I will cut off the inhabitant from Azotus, and him that holdeth the sceptre from Ascalon: and I will turn my hand against Accaron, and the rest of the Philistines shall perish, saith the Lord God. 
    9: Thus saith the Lord: For three crimes of Tyre, and for four I will not convert it: because they have shut up an entire captivity in Edom, and have not remembered the covenant of brethren. 
    10: And I will send a fire upon the wall of Tyre, and it shall devour the houses thereof.
    11: Thus saith the Lord: For three crimes of Edom, and for four I will not convert him: because he hath pursued his brother with the sword, and hath cast off all pity, and hath carried on his fury, and hath kept his wrath to the end. 
    12: I will send a fire into Theman: and it shall devour the houses of Bosra. 
    13: Thus saith the Lord: For three crimes of the children of Ammon, and for four I will not convert him: because he hath ripped up the women with child of Galaad to enlarge his border. 
    14: And I will kindle a fire in the wall of Rabba: and it shall devour the houses thereof with shouting in the day of battle, and with a whirlwind in the day of trouble. 
    15: And Melchom shall go into captivity, both he, and his princes together, saith the Lord.

  Chapter 2.

    1: Thus saith the Lord: For three crimes of Moab, and for four I will not convert him: because he hath burnt the bones of the king of Edom even to ashes. 
    2: And I will send a fire into Moab, and it shall devour the houses of Carioth: and Moab shall die with a noise, with the sound of the trumpet: 
    3: And I will cut off the judge from the midst thereof, and will slay all his princes with him, saith the Lord. 
    4: Thus saith the Lord: For three crimes of Juda, and for four I will not convert him: because he hath cast away the law of the Lord, and hath not kept his commandments: for their idols have caused them to err, after which their fathers have walked. 
    5: And I will send a fire into Juda, and it shall devour the houses of Jerusalem.
    6: Thus saith the Lord: For three crimes of Israel, and for four I will not convert him: because he hath sold the just man for silver, and the poor man for a pair of shoes. 
    7: They bruise the heads of the poor upon the dust of the earth, and turn aside the way of the humble: and the son and his father have gone to the same young woman, to profane my holy name. 
    8: And they sat down upon garments laid to pledge by every altar: and drank the wine of the condemned in the house of their God. 
    9: Yet I cast out the Amorrhite before their face: whose height was like the height of cedars, and who was strong as an oak: and I destroyed his fruit from above, and his roots beneath. 
    10: It is I that brought you up out of the land of Egypt, and I led you forty years through the wilderness, that you might possess the land of the Amorrhite.
    11: And I raised up of your sons for prophets, and of your young men for Nazarites. Is it not so, O ye children of Israel, saith the Lord? 
    12: And you will present wine to the Nazarites: and command the prophets, saying: Prophesy not. 
    13: Behold, I will screak under you as a wain screaketh that is laden with hay. 
    14: And flight shall perish from the swift, and the valiant shall not possess his strength, neither shall the strong save his life. 
    15: And he that holdeth the bow shall not stand, and the swift of foot shall not escape, neither shall the rider of the horse save his life.
    16: And the stout of heart among the valiant shall flee away naked in that day, saith the Lord.

  Chapter 3.

    1: Hear the word that the Lord hath spoken concerning you, O ye children of Israel: concerning the whole family that I brought up out of the land of Egypt, saying: 
    2: You only have I known of all the families of the earth: therefore will I visit upon you all your iniquities. 
    3: Shall two walk together except they be agreed? 
    4: Will a lion roar in the forest, if he have no prey? will the lion's whelp cry out of his den, if he have taken nothing? 
    5: Will the bird fall into the snare upon the earth, if there be no fowler? Shall the snare be taken up from the earth, before it hath taken somewhat?
    6: Shall the trumpet sound in a city, and the people not be afraid? Shall there be evil in a city, which the Lord hath not done? 
    7: For the Lord God doth nothing without revealing his secret to his servants the prophets. 
    8: The lion shall roar, who will not fear? The Lord God hath spoken, who shall not prophesy? 
    9: Publish it in the houses of Azotus, and in the houses of the land of Egypt, and say: Assemble yourselves upon the mountains of Samaria, and behold the many follies in the midst thereof, and them that suffer oppression in the inner rooms thereof. 
    10: And they have not known to do the right thing, saith the Lord, storing up iniquity, and robberies in their houses.
    11: Therefore thus saith the Lord God: The land shall be in tribulation, and shall be compassed about: and thy strength shall be taken away from thee, and thy houses shall be spoiled. 
    12: Thus saith the Lord: As if a shepherd should get out of the lion's mouth two legs, or the tip of the ear: so shall the children of Israel be taken out that dwell in Samaria, in a piece of a bed, and in the couch of Damascus. 
    13: Hear ye, and testify in the house of Jacob, saith the Lord the God of hosts: 
    14: That in the day when I shall begin to visit the transgressions of Israel, I will visit upon him, and upon the altars of Bethel: and the horns of the altars shall be cut off, and shall fall to the ground. 
    15: And I will strike the winter house with the summer house: and the houses of ivory shall perish, and many houses shall be destroyed, saith the Lord.

  Chapter 4.

    1: Hear this word, ye fat kine that are in the mountains of Samaria: you that oppress the needy, and crush the poor: that say to your masters: Bring, and we will drink. 
    2: The Lord God hath sworn by his holiness, that lo, the days shall come upon you, when they shall lift you up on pikes, and what shall remain of you in boiling pots. 
    3: And you shall go out at the breaches one over against the other, and you shall be cast forth into Armon, saith the Lord. 
    4: Come ye to Bethel, and do wickedly: to Galgal, and multiply transgressions: and bring in the morning your victims, your tithes in three days. 
    5: And offer a sacrifice of praise with leaven: and call free offerings, and proclaim it: for so you would do, O children of Israel, saith the Lord God.
    6: Whereupon I also have given you dulness of teeth in all your cities, and want of bread in all your places: yet you have not returned to me, saith the Lord. 
    7: I also have withholden the rain from you, when there were yet three months to the harvest: and I caused it to rain upon one city, and caused it not to rain upon another city: one piece was rained upon: and the piece whereupon I rained not, withered. 
    8: And two and three cities went to one city to drink water, and were not filled: yet you returned not to me, saith the Lord. 
    9: I struck you with a burning wind, and with mildew, the palmerworm hath eaten up your many gardens, and your vineyards: your olive groves, and fig groves: yet you returned not to me, saith the Lord. 
    10: I sent death upon you in the way of Egypt, I slew your young men with the sword, even to the captivity of your horses: and I made the stench of your camp to come up into your nostrils: yet you returned not to me, saith the Lord.
    11: I destroyed some of you, as God destroyed Sodom and Gomorrha, and you were as a firebrand plucked out of the burning: yet you returned not to me, saith the Lord. 
    12: Therefore I will do these things to thee, O Israel: and after I shall have done these things to thee, be prepared to meet thy God, O Israel. 
    13: For behold he that formeth the mountains and createth the wind, and declareth his word to man, he that maketh the morning mist, and walketh upon the high places of the earth: the Lord the God of hosts is his name.

End of day 268.