Day 279:

Reading Zechariah, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: In the eighth month, in the second year of king Darius, the word of the Lord came to Zacharias the son of Barachias, the son of Addo, the prophet, saying: 
    2: The Lord hath been exceeding angry with your fathers. 
    3: And thou shalt say to them: Thus saith the Lord of hosts: Turn ye to me, saith the Lord of hosts: and I will turn to you, saith the Lord of hosts. 
    4: Be not as your fathers, to whom the former prophets have cried, saying: Thus saith the Lord of hosts: Turn ye from your evil ways, and from your wicked thoughts: but they did not give ear, neither did they hearken to me, saith the Lord. 
    5: Your fathers, where are they? and the prophets, shall they live always?
    6: But yet my words, and my ordinances, which I gave in charge to my servants the prophets, did they not take hold of your fathers, and they returned, and said: As the Lord of hosts thought to do to us according to our ways, and according to our devices, so he hath done to us. 
    7: In the four and twentieth day of the eleventh month which is called Sabath, in the second year of Darius, the word of the Lord came to Zacharias the son of Barachias, the son of Addo, the prophet, saying: 
    8: I saw by night, and behold a man riding upon a red horse, and he stood among the myrtle trees, that were in the bottom: and behind him were horses, red, speckled, and white. 
    9: And I said: What are these, my Lord? and the angel that spoke in me, said to me: I will shew thee what these are: 
    10: And the man that stood among the myrtle trees answered, and said: These are they, whom the Lord hath sent to walk through the earth.
    11: And they answered the angel of the Lord, that stood among the myrtle trees, and said: We have walked through the earth, and behold all the earth is inhabited, and is at rest. 
    12: And the angel of the Lord answered, and said: O Lord of hosts, how long wilt thou not have mercy on Jerusalem, and on the cities of Juda, with which thou hast been angry? this is now the seventieth year. 
    13: And the Lord answered the angel, that spoke in me, good words, comfortable words. 
    14: And the angel that spoke in me, said to me: Cry thou, saying: Thus saith the Lord of hosts: I am zealous for Jerusalem, and Sion with a great zeal. 
    15: And I am angry with a great anger with the wealthy nations: for I was angry a little, but they helped forward the evil.
    16: Therefore thus saith the Lord: I will return to Jerusalem in mercies: my house shall be built in it, saith the Lord of hosts: and the building line shall be stretched forth upon Jerusalem. 
    17: Cry yet, saying: Thus saith the Lord of hosts: My cities shall yet flow with good things: and the Lord will yet comfort Sion, and he will yet choose Jerusalem. 
    18: And I lifted up my eyes, and saw: and behold four horns. 
    19: And I said to the angel that spoke to me: What are these? And he said to me: These are the horns that have scattered Juda, and Israel, and Jerusalem. 
    20: And the Lord shewed me four smiths.
    21: And I said: What come these to do? and he spoke, saying: These are the horns which have scattered Juda every man apart, and none of them lifted up his head: and these are come to fray them, to cast down the horns of the nations, that have lifted up the horn upon the land of Juda to scatter it.

  Chapter 2.

    1: And I lifted up my eyes, and saw, and behold a man, with a measuring line in his hand. 
    2: And I said: Whither goest thou? and he said to me: To measure Jerusalem, and to see how great is the breadth thereof, and how great the length thereof. 
    3: And behold the angel that spoke in me went forth, and another angel went out to meet him. 
    4: And he said to him: Run, speak to this young man, saying: Jerusalem shall be inhabited without walls, by reason of the multitude of men, and of the beasts in the midst thereof. 
    5: And I will be to it, saith the Lord, a wall of fire round about: and I will be in glory in the midst thereof.
    6: O, O flee ye out of the land of the north, saith the Lord, for I have scattered you into the four winds of heaven, saith the Lord. 
    7: O Sion, flee, thou that dwellest with the daughter of Babylon: 
    8: For thus saith the Lord of hosts: After the glory he hath sent me to the nations that have robbed you: for he that toucheth you, toucheth the apple of my eye: 
    9: For behold I lift up my hand upon them, and they shall be a prey to those that served them: and you shall know that the Lord of hosts sent me. 
    10: Sing praise, and rejoice, O daughter of Sion: for behold I come, and I will dwell in the midst of thee: saith the Lord.
    11: And many nations shall be joined to the Lord in that day, and they shall be my people, and I will dwell in the midst of thee: and thou shalt know that the Lord of hosts hath sent me to thee. 
    12: And the Lord shall possess Juda his portion in the sanctified land: and he shall yet choose Jerusalem. 
    13: Let all flesh be silent at the presence of the Lord: for he is risen up out of his. holy habitation.

  Chapter 3.

    1: And the Lord shewed me Jesus the high priest standing before the angel of the Lord: and Satan stood on his right hand to be his adversary. 
    2: And the Lord said to Satan: The Lord rebuke thee, O Satan: and the Lord that chose Jerusalem rebuke thee: Is not this a brand plucked out of the fire? 
    3: And Jesus was clothed with filthy garments: and he stood before the face of the angel. 
    4: Who answered, and said to them that stood before him, saying: Take away the filthy garments from him. And he said to him: Behold I have taken away thy iniquity, and have clothed thee with change of garments. 
    5: And he said: Put a clean mitre upon his head: and they put a clean mitre upon his head, and clothed him with garments, and the angel of the Lord stood.
    6: And the angel of the Lord protested to Jesus, saying: 
    7: Thus saith the Lord of hosts: If thou wilt walk in my ways, and keep my charge, thou also shalt judge my house, and shalt keep my courts, and I will give thee some of them that are now present here to walk with thee. 
    8: Hear, O Jesus thou high priest, thou and thy friends that dwell before thee, for they are portending men: for behold I WILL BRING MY SERVANT THE ORIENT. 
    9: For behold the stone that I have laid before Jesus: upon one stone there are seven eyes: behold I will grave the graving thereof, saith the Lord of hosts: and I will take away the iniquity of that land in one day. 
    10: In that day, saith the Lord of hosts, every man shall call his friend under the vine and under the fig tree.

  Chapter 4.

    1: And the angel that spoke in me came again: and he waked me, as a man that is wakened out of his sleep. 
    2: And he said to me: What seest thou? And I said: I have looked, and behold a candlestick all of gold, and its lamp upon the top of it: and the seven lights thereof upon it: and seven funnels for the lights that were upon the top thereof. 
    3: And two olive trees over it: one upon the right side of the lamp, and the other upon the left side thereof. 
    4: And I answered, and said to the angel that spoke in me, saying: What are these things, my lord? 
    5: And the angel that spoke in me answered, and said to me: Knowest thou not what these things are? And I said: No, my lord.
    6: And he answered, and spoke to me, saying: This is the word of the Lord to Zorobabel, saying: Not with an army, nor by might, but by my spirit, saith the Lord of hosts. 
    7: Who art thou, O great mountain, before Zorobabel? thou shalt become a plain: and he shall bring out the chief stone, and shall give equal grace to the grace thereof. 
    8: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying: 
    9: The hands of Zorobabel have laid the foundations of this house, and his hands shall finish it: and you shall know that the Lord of hosts hath sent me to you. 
    10: For who hath despised little days? and they shall rejoice, and shall see the tin plummet in the hand of Zorobabel. These are the seven eyes of the Lord, that run to and fro through the whole earth.
    11: And I answered, and said to him: What are these two olive trees upon the right side of the candlestick, and upon the left side thereof? 
    12: And I answered again, and said to him: What are the two olive branches, that are by the two golden beaks, in which are the funnels of gold? 
    13: And he spoke to me, saying: Knowest thou not what these are? And I said: No, my lord. 
    14: And he said: These are two sons of oil who stand before the Lord of the whole earth.

End of day 279.