Day 35:

Reading Numbers, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: 
    2: Speak to the children of Israel, and take of every one of them a rod by their kindreds, of all the princes of the tribes, twelve rods, and write the name of every man upon his rod. 
    3: And the name of Aaron shall be for the tribe of Levi, and one rod shall contain all their families: 
    4: And thou shalt lay them up in the tabernacle of the covenant before the testimony, where I will speak to thee. 
    5: Whomsoever of these I shall choose, his rod shall blossom: and I will make to cease from me the murmurings of the children of Israel, wherewith they murmur against you.
    6: And Moses spoke to the children of Israel: and all the princes gave him rods one for every tribe: and there were twelve rods besides the rod of Aaron. 
    7: And when Moses had laid them up before the Lord in the tabernacle of the testimony: 
    8: He returned on the following day, and found that the rod of Aaron for the house of Levi, was budded: and that the buds swelling it had bloomed blossoms, which spreading the leaves, were formed into almonds. 
    9: Moses therefore brought out all the rods from before the Lord to all the children of Israel: and they saw, and every one received their rods. 
    10: And the Lord said to Moses: Carry back the rod of Aaron into the tabernacle of the testimony, that it may be kept there for a token of the rebellious children of Israel, and that their complaints may cease from me lest they die.
    11: And Moses did as the Lord had commanded. 
    12: And the children of Israel said to Moses: Behold we are consumed, we all perish. 
    13: Whosoever approacheth to the tabernacle of the Lord, he dieth. Are we all to a man to be utterly destroyed?

  Chapter 18.

    1: And the Lord said to Aaron: Thou, and thy sons, and thy father's house with thee shall bear the iniquity of the sanctuary: and thou and thy sons with thee shall bear the sins of your priesthood. 
    2: And take with thee thy brethren also of the tribe of Levi, and the sceptre of thy father, and let them be ready in hand, and minister to thee: but thou and thy sons shall minister in the tabernacle of the testimony. 
    3: And the Levites shall watch to do thy commands, and about all the works of the tabernacle: only they shall not come nigh the vessels of the sanctuary nor the altar, lest both they die, and you also perish with them. 
    4: But let them be with thee, and watch in the charge of the tabernacle, and in all the ceremonies thereof. A stranger shall not join himself with you. 
    5: Watch ye in the charge of the sanctuary, and in the ministry of the altar: lest indignation rise upon the children of Israel.
    6: I have given you your brethren the Levites from among the children of Israel, and have delivered them for a gift to the Lord, to serve in the ministries of the tabernacle. 
    7: But thou and thy sons look ye to the priesthood: and all things that pertain to the service of the altar, and that are within the veil, shall be executed by the priests. If any stranger shall approach, he shall be slain. 
    8: And the Lord said to Aaron: Behold I have given thee the charge of my firstfruits. All things that are sanctified by the children of Israel, I have delivered to thee and to thy sons for the priestly office, by everlasting ordinances. 
    9: These therefore shalt thou take of the things that are sanctified, and are offered to the Lord. Every offering, and sacrifice, and whatsoever is rendered to me for sin and for trespass, and becometh holy of holies, shall be for thee and thy sons. 
    10: Thou shalt eat it in the sanctuary: the males only shall eat thereof, because it is a consecrated thing to thee.
    11: But the firstfruits, which the children of Israel shall vow and offer, I have given to thee, and to thy sons, and to thy daughters, by a perpetual law. He that is clean in thy house, shall eat them. 
    12: All the best of the oil, and of the wine, and of the corn, whatsoever firstfruits they offer to the Lord, I have given them to thee. 
    13: All the firstripe of the fruits, that the ground bringeth forth, and which are brought to the Lord, shall be for thy use: he that is clean in thy house, shall eat them. 
    14: Every thing that the children of Israel shall give by vow, shall be thine. 
    15: Whatsoever is firstborn of all flesh, which they offer to the Lord, whether it be of men, or of beasts, shall belong to thee: only for the firstborn of man thou shalt take a price, and every beast that is unclean thou shalt cause to be redeemed,
    16: And the redemption of it shall be after one month, for five sicles of silver, by the weight of the sanctuary. A sicle hath twenty obols. 
    17: But the firstling of a cow and of a sheep and of a goat thou shalt not cause to be redeemed, because they are sanctified to the Lord. Their blood only thou shalt pour upon the altar, and their fat thou shalt burn for a most sweet odour to the Lord. 
    18: But the flesh shall fall to thy use, as the consecrated breast, and the right shoulder shall be thine. 
    19: All the firstfruits of the sanctuary which the children of Israel offer to the Lord, I have given to thee and to thy sons and daughters, by a perpetual ordinance. It is a covenant of salt for ever before the Lord, to thee and to thy sons. 
    20: And the Lord said to Aaron: You shall possess nothing in their land, neither shall you have a portion among them: I am thy portion and inheritance in the midst of the children of Israel.
    21: And I have given to the sons of Levi all the tithes of Israel for a possession for the ministry wherewith they serve me in the tabernacle of the covenant: 
    22: That the children of Israel may not approach any more to the tabernacle, nor commit deadly sin, 
    23: But only the sons of Levi may serve me in the tabernacle, and bear the sins of the people. It shall be an everlasting ordinance in your generations. They shall not possess any other thing, 
    24: But be content with the oblation or tithes, which I have separated for their uses and necessities. 
    25: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying:
    26: Command the Levites, and declare unto them: When you shall receive of the children of Israel the tithes, which I have given you, offer the firstfruits of them to the Lord, that is to say, the tenth part of the tenth: 
    27: That it may be reckoned to you as an oblation of firstfruits, as well of the barnfloors as of the winepresses: 
    28: And of all the things of which you receive tithes, offer the firstfruits to the Lord, and give them to Aaron the priest. 
    29: All the things that you shall offer of the tithes, and shall separate for the gifts of the Lord, shall be the best and choicest things. 
    30: And thou shalt say to them: If you offer all the goodly and the better things of the tithes, it shall be reckoned to you as if you had given the firstfruits of the barnfloor and the winepress:
    31: And you shall eat them in all your places, both you and your families: because it is your reward for the ministry, wherewith you serve in the tabernacle of the testimony. 
    32: And you shall not sin in this point, by reserving the choicest and fat things to yourselves, lest you profane the oblations of the children of Israel, and die.

  Chapter 19.

    1: And the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying: 
    2: This is the observance of the victim, which the Lord hath ordained. Command the children of Israel, that they bring unto thee a red cow of full age, in which there is no blemish, and which hath not carried the yoke: 
    3: And you shall deliver her to Eleazar the priest, who shall bring her forth without the camp, and shall immolate her in the sight of all: 
    4: And dipping his finger in her blood, shall sprinkle it over against the door of the tabernacle seven times, 
    5: And shall burn her in the sight of all, delivering up to the fire her skin, and her flesh, and her blood, and her dung.
    6: The priest shall also take cedar wood, and hyssop, and scarlet twice dyed, and cast it into the flame, with which the cow is consumed. 
    7: And then after washing his garments, and body, he shall enter into the camp, and shall be unclean until the evening. 
    8: He also that hath burned her, shall wash his garments, and his body, and shall be unclean until the evening. 
    9: And a man that is clean shall gather up the ashes of the cow, and shall pour them forth without the camp in a most clean place, that they may be reserved for the multitude of the children of Israel, and for a water of aspersion: because the cow was burnt for sin. 
    10: And when he that carried the ashes of the cow, hath washed his garments, he shall be unclean until the evening. The children of Israel, and the strangers that dwell among them, shall observe this for a holy thing by a perpetual ordinance.
    11: He that toucheth the corpse of a man, and is therefore unclean seven days, 
    12: Shall be sprinkled with this water on the third day, and on the seventh, and so shall be cleansed. If he were not sprinkled on the third day, he cannot be cleansed on the seventh. 
    13: Every one that toucheth the corpse of a man, and is not sprinkled with mixture, shall profane the tabernacle of the Lord, and shall perish out of Israel: because he was not sprinkled with the water of expiation, he shall be unclean, and his uncleanness shall remain upon him. 
    14: This is the law of a man that dieth in a tent: All that go into his tent and all the vessels that are there, shall be unclean seven days. 
    15: The vessel that hath no cover, nor binding over it, shall be unclean.
    16: If any man in the field touch the corpse of a man that was slain, or that died of himself, or his bone, or his grave, he shall be unclean seven days. 
    17: And they shall take of the ashes of the burning and of the sin offering, and shall pour living waters upon them into a vessel. 
    18: And a man that is clean shall dip hyssop in them, and shall sprinkle therewith all the tent, and all the furniture, and the men that are defiled with touching any such thing: 
    19: And in this manner he that is clean shall purify the unclean on the third and on the seventh day. And being expiated the seventh day, he shall wash both himself and his garments, and be unclean until the evening. 
    20: If any man be not expiated after this rite, his soul shall perish out of the midst of the church: because he hath profaned the sanctuary of the Lord, and was not sprinkled with the water of purification.
    21: This precept shall be an ordinance for ever. He also that sprinkled the water, shall wash his garments. Every one that shall touch the waters of expiation, shall be unclean until the evening. 
    22: Whatsoever a person toucheth who is unclean, he shall make it unclean: and the person that toucheth any of these things, shall be unclean until the evening.

  Chapter 20.

    1: And the children of Israel, and all the multitude came into the desert of Sin, in the first month: and the people abode in Cades. And Mary died there, and was buried in the same place. 
    2: And the people wanting water, came together against Moses and Aaron: 
    3: And making a sedition, they said: Would God we had perished among our brethren before the Lord. 
    4: Why have you brought out the church of the Lord into the wilderness, that both we and our cattle should die? 
    5: Why have you made us come up out of Egypt, and have brought us into this wretched place which cannot be sowed, nor bringeth forth figs, nor vines, nor pomegranates, neither is there any water to drink?
    6: And Moses and Aaron leaving the multitude, went into the tabernacle of the covenant, and fell flat upon the ground, and cried to the Lord, and said: O Lord God, hear the cry of this people, and open to them thy treasure, a fountain of living water, that being satisfied, they may cease to murmur. And the glory of the Lord appeared over them. 
    7: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: 
    8: Take the rod, and assemble the people together, thou and Aaron thy brother, and speak to the rock before them, and it shall yield waters. And when thou hast brought forth water out of the rock, all the multitude and their cattle shall drink. 
    9: Moses therefore took the rod, which was before the Lord, as he had commanded him, 
    10: And having gathered together the multitude before the rock, he said to them: Hear, ye rebellious and incredulous: Can we bring you forth water out of this rock?
    11: And when Moses had lifted up his hand, and struck the rock twice with the rod, there came forth water in great abundance, so that the people and their cattle drank, 
    12: And the Lord said to Moses and Aaron: Because you have not believed me, to sanctify me before the children of Israel, you shall not bring these people into the land, which I will give them. 
    13: This is the Water of contradiction, where the children of Israel strove with words against the Lord, and he was sanctified in them. 
    14: In the mean time Moses sent messengers from Cades to the king of Edom, to say: Thus saith thy brother Israel: Thou knowest all the labour that hath come upon us: 
    15: In what manner our fathers went down into Egypt, and there we dwelt a long time, and the Egyptians afflicted us and our fathers.
    16: And how we cried to the Lord, and he heard us, and sent an angel, who hath brought us out of Egypt. Lo, we are now in the city of Cades, which is in the uttermost of thy borders, 
    17: And we beseech thee that we may have leave to pass through thy country. We will not go through the fields, nor through the vineyards, we will not drink the waters of thy wells, but we will go by the common highway, neither turning aside to the right hand, nor to the left, till we are past thy borders. 
    18: And Edom answered them: Thou shalt not pass by me: if thou dost I will come out armed against thee. 
    19: And the children of Israel said: We will go by the beaten way: and if we and our cattle drink of thy waters, we will give thee what is just: there shall be no difficulty in the price, only let us pass speedily. 
    20: But he answered: Thou shalt not pass. And immediately he came forth to meet them with an infinite multitude, and a strong hand,
    21: Neither would he condescend to their desire to grant them passage through his borders. Wherefore Israel turned another way from him. 
    22: And when they had removed the camp from Cades, they came to mount Hor, which is in the borders of the land of Edom: 
    23: Where the Lord spoke to Moses: 
    24: Let Aaron, saith he, go to his people: for he shall not go into the land which I have given the children of Israel, because he was incredulous to my words, at the waters of contradiction. 
    25: Take Aaron and his son with him, and bring them up into mount Hor:
    26: And when thou hast stripped the father of his vesture, thou shalt vest therewith Eleazar his son: Aaron shall be gathered to his people, and die there. 
    27: Moses did as the Lord had commanded: and they went up into mount Hor before all the multitude. 
    28: And when he had stripped Aaron of his vestments, he vested Eleazar his son with them. 
    29: And Aaron being dead in the top of the mountain, he came down with Eleazar. 
    30: And all the multitude seeing that Aaron was dead, mourned for him thirty days throughout all their families.

End of day 35.