Day 263:

Reading Hosea, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: The word of the Lord, that came to Osee the son of Beeri, in the days of Ozias, Joathan, Achaz, and Ezechias kings of Juda, and in the days of Jeroboam the son of Joas king of Israel. 
    2: The beginning of the Lord's speaking by Osee: and the Lord said to Osee: Go, take thee a wife of fornications, and have of her children of fornications: for the land by fornication shall depart from the Lord. 
    3: So he went, and took Gomer the daughter of Debelaim: and she conceived and bore him a son. 
    4: And the Lord said to him: Call his name Jezrahel: for yet a little while, and I will visit the blood of Jezrahel upon the house of Jehu, and I will cause to cease the kingdom of the house of Israel. 
    5: And in that day I will break in pieces the bow of Israel in the valley of Jezrahel.
    6: And she conceived again, and bore a daughter, and he said to him: Call her name, Without mercy: for I will not add any more to have mercy on the house of Israel, but I will utterly forget them. 
    7: And I will have mercy on the house of Juda, and I will save them by the Lord their God: and I will not save them by bow, nor by sword, nor by battle, nor by horses, nor by horsemen. 
    8: And she weaned her that was called Without mercy. And she conceived, and bore a son. 
    9: And he said: Call his name, Not my people: for you are not my people, and I will not be yours. 
    10: And the number of the children of Israel shall be as the sand of the sea, that is without measure, and shall not be numbered. And it shall be in the place where it shall be said to them: You are not my people: it shall be said to them: Ye are the sons of the living God.
    11: And the children of Juda, and the children of Israel shall be gathered together: and they shall appoint themselves one head, and shall come up out of the land: for great is the day of Jezrahel.

  Chapter 2.

    1: Say ye to your brethren: You are my people, and to your sister: Thou hast obtained mercy. 
    2: Judge your mother, judge her: because she is not my wife, and I am not her husband. Let her put away her fornications from her face, and her adulteries from between her breasts. 
    3: Lest I strip her naked, and set her as in the day that she was born: and I will make her as a wilderness, and will set her as a land that none can pass through, and will kill her with drought. 
    4: And I will not have mercy on her children: for they are the children of fornications. 
    5: For their mother hath committed fornication, she that conceived them is covered with shame: for she said: I will go after my lovers, that give me my bread, and my water, my wool, and my flax, my oil, and my drink.
    6: Wherefore behold I will hedge up thy way with thorns, and I will stop it up with a wall, and she shall not find her paths. 
    7: And she shall follow after her lovers, and shall not overtake them: and she shall seek them, and shall not find, and she shall say: I will go, and return to my first husband, because it was better with me then, than now. 
    8: And she did not know that I gave her corn and wine, and oil, and multiplied her silver, and gold, which they have used in the service of Baal. 
    9: Therefore will I return, and take away my corn in its season, and my wine in its season, and I will set at liberty my wool, and my flax, which covered her disgrace. 
    10: And now I will lay open her folly in the eyes of her lovers: and no man shall deliver her out of my hand:
    11: And I will cause all her mirth to cease, her solemnities, her new moons, her sabbaths, and all her festival times. 
    12: And I will destroy her vines, and her fig trees, of which she said: These are my rewards, which my lovers have given me: and I will make her as a forest, and the beasts of the field shall devour her. 
    13: And I will visit upon her the days of Baalim, to whom she burnt incense, and decked herself out with her earrings, and with her jewels, and went after her lovers, and forgot me, saith the Lord. 
    14: Therefore, behold I will allure her, and will lead her into the wilderness: and I will speak to her heart. 
    15: And I will give her vinedressers out of the same place, and the valley of Achor for an opening of hope: and she shall sing there according to the days of her youth, and according to the days of her coming up out of the land of Egypt.
    16: And it shall be in that day, saith the Lord, That she shall call me: My husband, and she shall call me no more Baali. 
    17: And I will take away the names of Baalim out of her mouth, and she shall no more remember their name. 
    18: And in that day I will make a covenant with them, with the beasts of the field, and with the fowls of the air, and with the creeping things of the earth: and I will destroy the bow, and the sword, and war out of the land: and I will make them sleep secure. 
    19: And I will espouse thee to me for ever: and I will espouse thee to me in justice, and judgment, and in mercy, and in commiserations. 
    20: And I will espouse thee to me in faith: and thou shalt know that I am the Lord.
    21: And it shall come to pass in that day: I will hear, saith the Lord, I will hear the heavens, and they shall hear the earth. 
    22: And the earth shall hear the corn, and the wine, and the oil, and these shall hear Jezrahel. 
    23: And I will sow her unto me in the earth, and I will have mercy on her that was without mercy. 
    24: And I will say to that which was not my people: Thou art my people: and they shall say: Thou art my God.

  Chapter 3.

    1: And the Lord said to me: Go yet again, and love a woman beloved of her friend, and an adulteress: as the Lord loveth the children of Israel, and they look to strange gods, and love the husks of the grapes. 
    2: And I bought her to me for fifteen pieces of silver, and for a core of barley, and for half a core of barley. 
    3: And I said to her: Thou shalt wait for me many days: thou shalt not play the harlot, and thou shalt be no man's, and I also will wait for thee. 
    4: For the children of Israel shall sit many days without king, and without prince, and without sacrifice, and without altar, and without ephod, and without theraphim. 
    5: And after this the children of Israel shall return, and shall seek the Lord their God, and David their king: and they shall fear the Lord, and his goodness in the last days.

  Chapter 4.

    1: Hear the word of the Lord, ye children of Israel, for the Lord shall enter into judgment with the inhabitants of the land: for there is no truth, and there is no mercy, and there is no knowledge of God in the land. 
    2: Cursing, and lying, and killing, and theft, and adultery have overflowed, and blood hath touched blood. 
    3: Therefore shall the land mourn, and every one that dwelleth in it shall languish with the beasts of the field, and with the fowls of the air: yea, the fishes of the sea also shall be gathered together. 
    4: But yet let not any man judge: and let not a man be rebuked: for thy people are as they that contradict the priest. 
    5: And thou shalt fall today, and the prophet also shall fall with thee: in the night I have made thy mother to be silent.
    6: My people have been silent, because they had no knowledge: because thou hast rejected knowledge, I will reject thee, that thou shalt not do the office of priesthood to me: and thou hast forgotten the law of thy God, I also will forget thy children. 
    7: According to the multitude of them so have they sinned against me: I will change their glory into shame. 
    8: They shall eat the sins of my people, and shall lift up their souls to their iniquity. 
    9: And there shall be like people like priest: and I will visit their ways upon them, and I will repay them their devices. 
    10: And they shall eat and shall not be filled: they have committed fornication, and have not ceased: because they have forsaken the Lord in not observing his law.
    11: Fornication, and wine, and drunkenness take away the understanding. 
    12: My people have consulted their stocks, and their staff hath declared unto them: for the spirit of fornication hath deceived them, and they have committed fornication against their God. 
    13: They offered sacrifice upon the tops of the mountains, and burnt incense upon the hills: under the oak, and the poplar, and the turpentine tree, because the shadow thereof was good: therefore shall your daughters commit fornication, and your spouses shall be adulteresses. 
    14: I will not visit upon your daughters when they shall commit fornication, and upon your spouses when they shall commit adultery: because themselves conversed with harlots, and offered sacrifice with the effeminate, and the people that doth not understand shall be beaten. 
    15: If thou play the harlot, O Israel, at least let not Juda offend: and go ye not into Galgal, and come not up into Bethaven, and do not swear: The Lord liveth.
    16: For Israel hath gone astray like a wanton heifer: now will the Lord feed them, as a lamb in a spacious place. 
    17: Ephraim is a partaker with idols, let him alone. 
    18: Their banquet is separated, they have gone astray by fornication: they that should have protected them have loved to bring shame upon them. 
    19: The wind hath bound them up in its wings, and they shall be confounded because of their sacrifices.

End of day 263.