Day 168:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['97', '98', '99', '100']:

  Chapter 97.

    1: A psalm for David himself. Sing ye to the Lord anew canticle: because he hath done wonderful things. His right hand hath wrought for him salvation, and his arm is holy. 
    2: The Lord hath made known his salvation: he hath revealed his justice in the sight of the Gentiles. 
    3: He hath remembered his mercy his truth toward the house of Israel. All the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God. 
    4: Sing joyfully to God, all the earth; make melody, rejoice and sing. 
    5: Sing praise to the Lord on the harp, on the harp, and with the voice of a psalm:
    6: With long trumpets, and sound of comet. Make a joyful noise before the Lord our king: 
    7: Let the sea be moved and the fulness thereof: the world and they that dwell therein. 
    8: The rivers shall clap their hands, the mountains shall rejoice together 
    9: At the presence of the Lord: because he cometh to judge the earth. He shall judge the world with justice, and the people with equity.

  Chapter 98.

    1: A psalm for David himself. The Lord hath reigned, let the people be angry: he that sitteth on the cherubims: let the earth be moved. 
    2: The Lord is great in Sion, and high above all people. 
    3: Let them give praise to thy great name: for it is terrible and holy: 
    4: And the king's honour loveth judgment. Thou hast prepared directions: thou hast done judgment and justice in Jacob. 
    5: Exalt ye the Lord our God, and adore his footstool, for it is holy.
    6: Moses and Aaron among his priests: and Samuel among them that call upon his name. They called upon the Lord, and he heard them: 
    7: He spoke to them in the pillar of the cloud. They kept his testimonies, and the commandment which he gave them. 
    8: Thou didst hear them, O Lord our God: thou wast a merciful God to them, and taking vengeance on all their inventions. 
    9: Exalt ye the Lord our God, and adore at his holy mountain: for the Lord our God is holy.

  Chapter 99.

    1: A psalm of praise. 
    2: Sing joyfully to God, all the earth: serve ye the Lord with gladness. Come in before his presence with exceeding great joy. 
    3: Know ye that the Lord he is God: he made us, and not we ourselves. We are his people and the sheep of his pasture. 
    4: Go ye into his gates with praise, into his courts with hymns: and give glory to him. Praise ye his name: 
    5: For the Lord is sweet, his mercy endureth for ever, and his truth to generation and generation.

  Chapter 100.

    1: A psalm for David himself. Mercy and judgment I will sing to thee, O Lord: I will sing, 
    2: And I will understand in the unspotted way, when thou shalt come to me. I walked in the innocence of my heart, in the midst of my house. 
    3: I did not set before my eyes any unjust thing: I hated the workers of iniquities. 
    4: The perverse heart did not cleave to me: and the malignant, that turned aside from me, I would not know. 
    5: The man that in private detracted his neighbour, him did I persecute. With him that had a proud eye, and an unsatiable heart, I would not eat.
    6: My eyes were upon the faithful of the earth, to sit with me: the man that walked in the perfect way, he served me. 
    7: He that worketh pride shall not dwell in the midst of my house: he that speaketh unjust things did not prosper before my eyes. 
    8: In the morning I put to death all the wicked of the land: that I might cut off all the workers of iniquity from the city of the Lord.

End of day 168.