Day 312:

Reading Acts, chapters ['21', '22', '23', '24']:

  Chapter 21.

    1: And when it came to pass that, being parted from them, we set sail, we came with a straight course to Coos, and the day following to Rhodes, and from thence to Patara. 
    2: And when we had found a ship sailing over to Phenice, we went aboard, and set forth. 
    3: And when we had discovered Cyprus, leaving it on the left hand, we sailed into Syria, and came to Tyre: for there the ship was to unlade her burden. 
    4: And finding disciples, we tarried there seven days: who said to Paul through the Spirit, that he should not go up to Jerusalem. 
    5: And the days being expired, departing we went forward, they all bringing us on our way, with their wives and children, till we were out of the city: and we kneeled down on the shore, and we prayed.
    6: And when we had bid one another farewell, we took ship; and they returned home. 
    7: But we having finished the voyage by sea, from Tyre came down to Ptolemais: and saluting the brethren, we abode one day with them. 
    8: And the next day departing, we came to Caesarea. And entering into the house of Philip the evangelist, who was one of the seven, we abode with him. 
    9: And he had four daughters, virgins, who did prophesy. 
    10: And as we tarried there for some days, there came from Judea a certain prophet, named Agabus.
    11: Who, when he was come to us, took Paul's girdle: and binding his own feet and hands, he said: Thus saith the Holy Ghost: The man whose girdle this is, the Jews shall bind in this manner in Jerusalem, and shall deliver him into the hands of the Gentiles. 
    12: Which when we had heard, both we and they that were of that place, desired him that he would not go up to Jerusalem. 
    13: Then Paul answered, and said: What do you mean weeping and afflicting my heart? For I am ready not only to be bound, but to die also in Jerusalem, for the name of the Lord Jesus. 
    14: And when we could not persuade him, we ceased, saying: The will of the Lord be done. 
    15: And after those days, being prepared, we went up to Jerusalem.
    16: And there went also with us some of the disciples from Caesarea, bringing with them one Mnason a Cyprian, an old disciple, with whom we should lodge. 
    17: And when we were come to Jerusalem, the brethren received us gladly. 
    18: And the day following, Paul went in with us unto James; and all the ancients were assembled. 
    19: Whom when he had saluted, he related particularly what things God had wrought among the Gentiles by his ministry. 
    20: But they hearing it, glorified God, and said to him: Thou seest, brother, how many thousands there are among the Jews that have believed: and they are all zealous for the law.
    21: Now they have heard of thee that thou teachest those Jews, who are among the Gentiles, to depart from Moses: saying, that they ought not to circumcise their children, nor walk according to the custom. 
    22: What is it therefore? the multitude must needs come together: for they will hear that thou art come. 
    23: Do therefore this that we say to thee. We have four men, who have a vow on them. 
    24: Take these, and sanctify thyself with them: and bestow on them, that they may shave their heads: and all will know that the things which they have heard of thee, are false; but that thou thyself also walkest keeping the law. 
    25: But as touching the Gentiles that believe, we have written, decreeing that they should only refrain themselves from that which has been offered to idols, and from blood, and from things strangles, and from fornication.
    26: Then Paul took the men, and the next day being purified with them, entered into the temple, giving notice of the accomplishment of the days of purification, until an oblation should be offered for every one of them. 
    27: But when the seven days were drawing to an end, those Jews that were of Asia, when they saw him in the temple, stirred up all the people, and laid hands upon him, crying out: 
    28: Men of Israel, help: This is the man that teacheth all men everywhere against the people, and the law, and this place; and moreover hath brought in Gentiles into the temple, and hath violated this holy place. 
    29: (For they had seen Trophimus the Ephesian in the city with him, whom they supposed that Paul had brought into the temple.) 
    30: And the whole city was in an uproar: and the people ran together. And taking Paul, they drew him out of the temple, and immediately the doors were shut.
    31: And as they went about to kill him, it was told the tribune of the band, That all Jerusalem was in confusion. 
    32: Who, forthwith taking with him soldiers and centurions, ran down to them. And when they saw the tribune and the soldiers they left off beating Paul. 
    33: Then the tribune coming near, took him, and commanded him to be bound with two chains: and demanded who he was, and what he had done. 
    34: And some cried one thing, some another, among the multitude. And when he could not know the certainty for the tumult, he commanded him to be carried into the castle. 
    35: And when he was come to the stairs, it fell out that he was carried by the soldiers, because of the violence of the people.
    36: For the multitude of the people followed after, crying: Away with him. 
    37: And as Paul was about to be brought into the castle, he saith to the tribune: May I speak something to thee? Who said: Canst thou speak Greek? 
    38: Art not thou that Egyptian who before these days didst raise a tumult, and didst lead forth into the desert four thousand men that were murderers? 
    39: But Paul said to him: I am a Jew of Tarsus in Cilicia, a citizen of no mean city. And I beseech thee, suffer me to speak to the people. 
    40: And when he had given him leave, Paul standing on the stairs, beckoned with his hand to the people. And a great silence being made, he spoke unto them in the Hebrew tongue, saying:

  Chapter 22.

    1: Men, brethren, and fathers, hear ye the account which I now give unto you. 
    2: (And when they heard that he spoke to them in the Hebrew tongue, they kept the more silence.) 
    3: And he saith: I am a Jew, born at Tarsus in Cilicia, but brought up in this city, at the feet of Gamaliel, taught according to the truth of the law of the fathers, zealous for the law, as also all you are this day: 
    4: Who persecuted this way unto death, binding and delivering into prisons both men and women. 
    5: As the high priest doth bear me witness, and all the ancients: from whom also receiving letters to the brethren, I went to Damascus, that I might bring them bound from thence to Jerusalem to be punished.
    6: And it came to pass, as I was going, and drawing nigh to Damascus at midday, that suddenly from heaven there shone round about me a great light: 
    7: And falling on the ground, I heard a voice saying to me: Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? 
    8: And I answered: Who art thou, Lord? And he said to me: I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom thou persecutest. 
    9: And they that were with me, saw indeed the light, but they heard not the voice of him that spoke with me. 
    10: And I said: What shall I do, Lord? And the Lord said to me: Arise, and go to Damascus; and there it shall be told thee of all things that thou must do.
    11: And whereas I did not see for the brightness of that light, being led by the hand by my companions, I came to Damascus. 
    12: And one Ananias, a man according to the law, having testimony of all the Jews who dwelt there, 
    13: Coming to me, and standing by me, said to me: Brother Saul, look up. And I the same hour looked upon him. 
    14: But he said: The God of our fathers hath preordained thee that thou shouldst know his will, and see the Just One, and shouldst hear the voice from his mouth. 
    15: For thou shalt be his witness to all men, of those things which thou hast seen and heard.
    16: And now why tarriest thou? Rise up, and be baptized, and wash away thy sins, invoking his name. 
    17: And it came to pass, when I was come again to Jerusalem, and was praying in the temple, that I was in a trance, 
    18: And saw him saying unto me: Make haste, and get thee quickly out of Jerusalem; because they will not receive thy testimony concerning me. 
    19: And I said: Lord, they know that I cast into prison, and beat in every synagogue, them that believed in thee. 
    20: And when the blood of Stephen thy witness was shed, I stood by and consented, and kept the garments of them that killed him.
    21: And he said to me: Go, for unto the Gentiles afar off, will I send thee. 
    22: And they heard him until this word, and then lifted up their voice, saying: Away with such an one from the earth; for it is not fit that he should live. 
    23: And as they cried out and threw off their garments, and cast dust into the air, 
    24: The tribune commanded him to be brought into the castle, and that he should be scourged and tortured: to know for what cause they did so cry out against him. 
    25: And when they had bound him with thongs, Paul saith to the centurion that stood by him: Is it lawful for you to scourge a man that is a Roman, and uncondemned?
    26: Which the centurion hearing, went to the tribune, and told him, saying: What art thou about to do? For this man is a Roman citizen. 
    27: And the tribune coming, said to him: Tell me, art thou a Roman? But he said: Yea. 
    28: And the tribune answered: I obtained the being free of this city with a great sum. And Paul said: But I was born so. 
    29: Immediately therefore they departed from him that were about to torture him. The tribune also was afraid after he understood that he was a Roman citizen, and because he had bound him. 
    30: But on the next day, meaning to know more diligently for what cause he was accused by the Jews, he loosed him, and commanded the priests to come together, and all the council: and bringing forth Paul, he set him before them.

  Chapter 23.

    1: And Paul looking upon the council, said: Men, brethren, I have conversed with all good conscience before God until this present day. 
    2: And the high priest Ananias commanded them that stood by him to strike him on the mouth. 
    3: Then Paul said to him: God shall strike thee, thou whited wall. For sittest thou to judge me according to the law, and contrary to the law commandest me to be struck? 
    4: And they that stood by said: Dost thou revile the high priest of God? 
    5: And Paul said: I knew not, brethren, that he is the high priest. For it is written: Thou shalt not speak evil of the prince of thy people.
    6: And Paul knowing that the one part were Sadducees, and the other Pharisees, cried out in the council: Men, brethren, I am a Pharisee, the son of Pharisees: concerning the hope and resurrection of the dead I am called in question. 
    7: And when he had so said, there arose a dissension between the Pharisees and the Sadducees; and the multitude was divided. 
    8: For the Sadducees say that there is no resurrection, neither angel, nor spirit: but the Pharisees confess both. 
    9: And there arose a great cry. And some of the Pharisees rising up, strove, saying: We find no evil in this man. What if a spirit hath spoken to him, or an angel? 
    10: And when there arose a great dissension, the tribune fearing lest Paul should be pulled in pieces by them, commanded the soldiers to go down, and to take him by force from among them, and to bring him into the castle.
    11: And the night following the Lord standing by him, said: Be constant; for as thou hast testified of me in Jerusalem, so must thou bear witness also at Rome. 
    12: And when day was come, some of the Jews gathered together, and bound themselves under a curse, saying, that they would neither eat, nor drink, till they killed Paul. 
    13: And they were more than forty men that had made this conspiracy. 
    14: Who came to the chief priests and the ancients, and said: We have bound ourselves under a great curse that we will eat nothing till we have slain Paul. 
    15: Now therefore do you with the council signify to the tribune, that he bring him forth to you, as if you meant to know something more certain touching him. And we, before he come near, are ready to kill him.
    16: Which when Paul's sister's son had heard, of their lying in wait, he came and entered into the castle and told Paul. 
    17: And Paul, calling to him one of the centurions, said: Bring this young man to the tribune, for he hath some thing to tell him. 
    18: And he taking him, brought him to the tribune, and said: Paul, the prisoner, desired me to bring this young man unto thee, who hath some thing to say to thee. 
    19: And the tribune taking him by the hand, went aside with him privately, and asked him: What is it that thou hast to tell me? 
    20: And he said: The Jews have agreed to desire thee, that thou wouldst bring forth Paul tomorrow into the council, as if they meant to inquire some thing more certain touching him.
    21: But do not thou give credit to them; for there lie in wait for him more than forty men of them, who have bound themselves by oath neither to eat, nor to drink, till they have killed him: and they are now ready, looking for a promise from thee. 
    22: The tribune therefore dismissed the young man, charging him that he should tell no man, that he had made known these things unto him. 
    23: Then having called two centurions, he said to them: Make ready two hundred soldiers to go as far as Caesarea, and seventy horsemen, and two hundred spearmen for the third hour of the night: 
    24: And provide beasts, that they may set Paul on, and bring him safe to Felix the governor. 
    25: (For he feared lest perhaps the Jews might take him away by force and kill him, and he should afterwards be slandered, as if he was to take money.) And he wrote a letter after this manner:
    26: Claudius Lysias to the most excellent governor, Felix, greeting. 
    27: This man being taken by the Jews, and ready to be killed by them, I rescued coming in with an army, understanding that he is a Roman: 
    28: And meaning to know the cause which they objected unto him, I brought him forth into their council. 
    29: Whom I found to be accused concerning questions of their law; but having nothing laid to his charge worthy of death or of bands. 
    30: And when I was told of ambushes that they had prepared for him, I sent him to thee, signifying also to his accusers to plead before thee. Farewell.
    31: Then the soldiers, according as it was commanded them, taking Paul, brought him by night to Antipatris. 
    32: And the next day, leaving the horsemen to go with him, they returned to the castle. 
    33: Who, when they were come to Caesarea, and had delivered the letter to the governor, did also present Paul before him. 
    34: And when he had read it, and had asked of what province he was, and understood that he was of Cilicia; 
    35: I will hear thee, said he, when thy accusers come. And he commanded him to be kept in Herod's judgment hall.

  Chapter 24.

    1: And after five days the high priest Ananias came down, with some of the ancients, and one Tertullus an orator, who went to the governor against Paul. 
    2: And Paul being called for, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying: Whereas through thee we live in much peace, and many things are rectified by thy providence, 
    3: We accept it always and in all places, most excellent Felix, with all thanksgiving. 
    4: But that I be no further tedious to thee, I desire thee of thy clemency to hear us in few words. 
    5: We have found this to be a pestilent man, and raising seditions among all the Jews throughout the world, and author of the sedition of the sect of the Nazarenes.
    6: Who also hath gone about to profane the temple: whom, we having apprehended, would also have judged according to our law. 
    7: But Lysias the tribune coming upon us, with great violence took him away out of our hands; 
    8: Commanding his accusers to come to thee: of whom thou mayest thyself, by examination, have knowledge of all these things, whereof we accuse him. 
    9: And the Jews also added, and said that these things were so. 
    10: Then Paul answered, (the governor making a sign to him to speak:) Knowing that for many years thou hast been judge over this nation, I will with good courage answer for myself.
    11: For thou mayest understand, that there are yet but twelve days, since I went up to adore in Jerusalem: 
    12: And neither in the temple did they find me disputing with any man, or causing any concourse of the people, neither in the synagogues, nor in the city: 
    13: Neither can they prove unto thee the things whereof they now accuse me. 
    14: But this I confess to thee, that according to the way, which they call a heresy, so do I serve the Father and my God, believing all things which are written in the law and the prophets: 
    15: Having hope in God, which these also themselves look for, that there shall be a resurrection of the just and unjust.
    16: And herein do I endeavour to have always a conscience without offence toward God, and towards men. 
    17: Now after many years, I came to bring alms to my nation, and offerings, and vows. 
    18: In which I was found purified in the temple: neither with multitude, nor with tumult. 
    19: But certain Jews of Asia, who ought to be present before thee, and to accuse, if they had any thing against me: 
    20: Or let these men themselves say, if they found in me any iniquity, when standing before the council,
    21: Except it be for this one voice only that I cried, standing among them, Concerning the resurrection of the dead am I judged this day by you. 
    22: And Felix put them off, having most certain knowledge of this way, saying: When Lysias the tribune shall come down, I will hear you. 
    23: And he commanded a centurion to keep him, and that he should be easy, and that he should not prohibit any of his friends to minister unto him. 
    24: And after some days, Felix, coming with Drusilla his wife, who was a Jew, sent for Paul, and heard of him the faith, that is in Christ Jesus. 
    25: And as he treated of justice, and chastity, and of the judgment to come, Felix being terrified, answered: For this time, go thy way: but when I have a convenient time, I will send for thee.
    26: Hoping also withal, that money should be given him by Paul; for which cause also oftentimes sending for him, he spoke with him. 
    27: But when two years were ended, Felix had for successor Portius Festus. And Felix being willing to shew the Jews a pleasure, left Paul bound.

End of day 312.