Day 203:

Reading Sirach, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: He that toucheth pitch, shall be defiled with it: and he that hath fellowship with the proud, shall put on pride. 
    2: He shall take a burden upon him that hath fellowship with one more honourable than himself. And have no fellowship with one that is richer than thyself. 
    3: What agreement shall the earthen pot have with the kettle? for if they knock one against the other, it shall be broken. 
    4: The rich man hath done wrong, and yet he will fume: but the poor is wronged and must hold his peace. 
    5: If thou give, he will make use of thee: and if thou have nothing, he will forsake thee.
    6: If thou have any thing, he will live with thee, and will make thee bare, and he will not be sorry for thee. 
    7: If he have need of thee he will deceive thee, and smiling upon thee will put thee in hope; he will speak thee fair, and will say: What wantest thou? 
    8: And he will shame thee by his meats, till he have drawn thee dry twice or thrice, and at last he will laugh at thee: and afterward when he seeth thee, he will forsake thee, and shake his head at thee. 
    9: Humble thyself to God, and wait for his hands. 
    10: Beware that thou be not deceived Into folly, and be humbled.
    11: Be not lowly in thy wisdom, lest being humbled thou be deceived into folly. 
    12: If thou be invited by one that is mightier, withdraw thyself: for so he will invite thee the more. 
    13: Be not troublesome to him, lest thou be put back: and keep not far from him, lest thou be forgotten. 
    14: Affect not to speak with him as an equal: and believe not his many words: for by much talk he will sift thee, and smiling will examine thee concerning thy secrets. 
    15: His cruel mind will lay up thy words: and he will not spare to do thee hurt, and to cast thee into prison.
    16: Take heed to thyself, and attend diligently to what thou hearest: for thou walkest in danger of thy ruin. 
    17: When thou hearest those things, see as it were in sleep, and thou shalt awake. 
    18: Love God all thy life, and call upon him for thy salvation. 
    19: Every beast loveth its like: so also every man him that is nearest to himself. 
    20: All flesh shall consort with the like to itself, and every man shall associate himself to his like.
    21: If the wolf shall at any time have fellowship with the lamb, so the sinner with the just. 
    22: What fellowship hath a holy man with a dog, or what part hath the rich with the poor? 
    23: The wild ass is the lion's prey in the desert: so also the poor are devoured by the rich. 
    24: And as humility is an abomination to the proud: so also the rich man abhorreth the poor. 
    25: When a rich man is shaken, he is kept up by his friends: but when a poor man is fallen down, he is thrust away even by his acquaintance.
    26: When a rich man hath been deceived, he hath many helpers: he hath spoken proud things, and they have justified him. 
    27: The poor man was deceived, and he is rebuked also: he hath spoken wisely, and could have no place. 
    28: The rich man spoke, and all held their peace, and what he said they extol even to the clouds. 
    29: The poor man spoke, and they say: Who is this? and if he stumble, they will overthrow him. 
    30: Riches are good to him that hath no sin in his conscience: and poverty is very wicked in the mouth of the ungodly.
    31: The heart of a man changeth his countenance, either for good, or for evil. 
    32: The token of a good heart, and a good countenance thou shalt hardly find, and with labour.

  Chapter 14.

    1: Blessed is the man that hath not slipped by a word out of his mouth, and is not pricked with the remorse of sin. 
    2: Happy is he that hath had no sadness of his mind, and who is not fallen from his hope. 
    3: Riches are not comely for a covetous man and a niggard, and what should an envious man do with gold? 
    4: He that gathereth together by wronging his own soul, gathereth for others, and another will squander away his goods in rioting. 
    5: He that is evil to himself, to whom will he be good? and he shall not take pleasure in his goods.
    6: There is none worse than he that envieth himself, and this is the reward of his wickedness: 
    7: And if he do good, he doth it ignorantly, and unwillingly: and at the last he discovereth his wickedness. 
    8: The eye of the envious is wicked: and he turneth away his face, and despiseth his own soul. 
    9: The eye of the covetous man is insatiable in his portion of iniquity: he will not be satisfied till he consume his own soul, drying it up. 
    10: An evil eye is towards evil things: and he shall not have his fill of bread, but shall be needy and pensive at his own table.
    11: My son, if thou have any thing, do good to thyself, and offer to God worthy offerings. 
    12: Remember that death is not slow, and that the covenant of hell hath been shewn to thee: for the covenant of this world shall surely die. 
    13: Do good to thy friend before thou die, and according to thy ability, stretching out thy hand give to the poor. 
    14: Defraud not thyself of the good day, and let not the part of a good gift overpass thee. 
    15: Shalt thou not leave to others to divide by lot thy sorrows and labours?
    16: Give and take, and justify thy soul. 
    17: Before thy death work justice: for in hell there is no finding food. 
    18: All flesh shall fade as grass, and as the leaf that springeth out on a green tree. 
    19: Some grow, and some fall off: so is the generation of flesh and blood, one cometh to an end, and another is born. 
    20: Every work that is corruptible shall fail in the end: and the worker thereof shall go with it.
    21: And every excellent work shall be justified: and the worker thereof shall be honoured therein. 
    22: Blessed is the man that shall continue in wisdom, and that shall meditate in his justice, and in his mind shall think of the all seeing eye of God. 
    23: He that considereth her ways in his heart, and hath understanding in her secrets, who goeth after her as one that traceth, and stayeth in her ways: 
    24: He who looketh in at her windows, and hearkeneth at her door: 
    25: He that lodgeth near her house, and fastening a pin in her walls shall set up his tent nigh unto her, where good things shall rest in his lodging for ever.
    26: He shall set his children under her shelter, and shall lodge under her branches: 
    27: He shall be protected under her covering from the heat, and shall rest in her glory.

  Chapter 15.

    1: He that feareth God, will do good: and he that possesseth justice, shall lay hold on her, 
    2: And she will meet him as an honourable mother, and will receive him as a wife married of a virgin. 
    3: With the bread of life and understanding, she shall feed him, and give him the water of wholesome wisdom to drink: and she shall be made strong in him, and he shall not be moved: 
    4: And she shall hold him fast, and he shall not be confounded: and she shall exalt him among his neighbours. 
    5: And in the midst of the church she shall open his mouth, and shall fill him with the spirit of wisdom and understanding, and shall clothe him with a robe of glory.
    6: She shall heap upon him a treasure of joy and gladness, and shall cause him to inherit an everlasting name. 
    7: But foolish men shall not obtain her, and wise men shall meet her, foolish men shall not see her: for she is far from pride and deceit. 
    8: Lying men shall not be mindful of her: but men that speak truth shall be found with her, and shall advance, even till they come to the sight of God. 
    9: Praise is not seemly in the mouth of a sinner: 
    10: For wisdom came forth from God: for praise shall be with the wisdom of God, and shall abound in a faithful mouth, and the sovereign Lord will give praise unto it.
    11: Say not: It is through God, that she is not with me: for do not thou the things that he hateth. 
    12: Say not: He hath caused me to err: for he hath no need of wicked men. 
    13: The Lord hateth all abomination of error, and they that fear him shall not love it. 
    14: God made man from the beginning, and left him in the hand of his own counsel. 
    15: He added his commandments and precepts.
    16: If thou wilt keep the commandments and perform acceptable fidelity for ever, they shall preserve thee. 
    17: He hath set water and fire before thee: stretch forth thy hand to which thou wilt. 
    18: Before man is life and death, good and evil, that which he shall choose shall be given him: 
    19: For the wisdom of God is great, and he is strong in power, seeing all men without ceasing. 
    20: The eyes of the Lord are towards them that fear him, and he knoweth all the work of man.
    21: He hath commanded no man to do wickedly, and he hath given no man license to sin: 
    22: For he desireth not a multitude of faithless and unprofitable children.

  Chapter 16.

    1: Rejoice not in ungodly children, if they be multiplied: neither be delighted in them, if the fear of God be not with them. 
    2: Trust not to their life, and respect not their labours. 
    3: For better is one that feareth God, than a thousand ungodly children. 
    4: And it is better to die without children, than to leave ungodly children. 
    5: By one that is wise a country shall be inhabited, the tribe of the ungodly shall become desolate.
    6: Many such things hath my eyes seen, and greater things than these my ear hath heard. 
    7: In the congregation of sinners a fire shall be kindled, and in an unbelieving nation wrath shall dame out. 
    8: The ancient giants did not obtain pardon for their sins, who were destroyed trusting to their own strength: 
    9: And he spared not the place where Lot sojourned, but abhorred them for the pride of their word. 
    10: He had not pity on them, destroying the whole nation that extolled themselves in their sins.
    11: So did he with the six hundred thousand footmen, who were gathered together in the hardness of their heart: and if one had been stiffnecked, it is a wonder if he had escaped unpunished: 
    12: For mercy and wrath are with him. He is mighty to forgive, and to pour out indignation: 
    13: According as his mercy is, so his correction judgeth a man according to his works. 
    14: The sinner shall not escape in his rapines, and the patience of him that sheweth mercy shall not be put off. 
    15: All mercy shall make a place for every man according to the merit of his works, and according to the wisdom of his sojournment.
    16: Say not: I shall be hidden from God. and who shall remember me from on high? 
    17: In such a multitude I shall not be known: for what is my soul in such an immense creation? 
    18: Behold the heaven, and the heavens of heavens, the deep, and all the earth, and the things that are in them, shall be moved in his sight, 
    19: The mountains also, and the hills, and the foundations of the earth: when God shall look upon them, they shall be shaken with trembling. 
    20: And in all these things the heart is senseless: and every heart is understood by him:
    21: And his ways who shall understand, and the storm, which no eye of man see? 
    22: For many of his works are hidden: hut the works of his justice who shall declare? or who shall endure? for the testament is far from some, and the examination of all is in the end. 
    23: He that wanteth understanding thinketh vain things: and the foolish, and erring man, thinketh foolish things. 
    24: Hearken to me, my son, and learn the discipline of understanding, and attend to my words in thy heart. 
    25: And I will shew forth good doctrine in equity, and will seek to declare wisdom: and attend to my words in thy heart, whilst with equity of spirit I tell thee the virtues that God hath put upon his works from the beginning, and I shew forth in truth his knowledge.
    26: The works of God are done in judgment from the beginning, and from the making of them he distinguished their parts, and their beginnings in their generations. 
    27: He beautified their works for ever, they have neither hungered, nor laboured, and they have not ceased from their works. 
    28: Nor shall any of them straiten his neighbour at any time. 
    29: Be not thou incredulous to his word. 
    30: After this God looked upon the earth, and filled it with his goods.
    31: The soul of every living thing hath shewn forth before the face thereof, and into it they return again.

End of day 203.