Day 252:

Reading Ezekiel, chapters ['21', '22', '23', '24']:

  Chapter 21.

    1: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying: 
    2: Son of man, set thy face toward Jerusalem, and let thy speech flow towards the holy places, and prophesy against the land of Israel: 
    3: And say to the land of Israel: Thus saith the Lord God: Behold I come against thee, and I will draw forth my sword out of its sheath, and will cut off in thee the just, and the wicked. 
    4: And forasmuch as I have cut off in thee the just, and the wicked, therefore shall my sword go forth out of its sheath against all flesh, from the south even to the north. 
    5: That all flesh may know that I the Lord have drawn my sword out of its sheath not to be turned back.
    6: And thou, son of man, mourn with the breaking of thy loins, and with bitterness sigh before them. 
    7: And when they shall say to thee: Why mournest thou? thou shalt say: For that which I hear: because it cometh, and every heart shall melt, and all hands shall be made feeble, and every spirit shall faint, and water shall run down every knee: behold it cometh, and it shall be done, saith the Lord God. 
    8: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying: 
    9: Son of man, prophesy, and say: Thus saith the Lord God: Say: The sword, the sword is sharpened, and furbished. 
    10: It is sharpened to kill victims: it is furbished that it may glitter: thou removest the sceptre of my son, thou hast cut down every tree.
    11: And I have given it to be furbished, that it may be handled: this sword is sharpened, and it is furbished, that it may be in the hand of the slayer. 
    12: Cry, and howl, O son of man, for this sword is upon my people, it is upon all the princes of Israel, that are fled: they are delivered up to the sword with my people, strike therefore upon thy thigh, 
    13: Because it is tried: and that when it shall overthrow the sceptre, and it shall not be, saith the Lord God. 
    14: Thou therefore, O son of man, prophesy, and strike thy hands together, and let the sword be doubled, and let the sword of the slain be tripled: this is the sword of a great slaughter, that maketh them stand amazed, 
    15: And languish in heart, and that multiplieth ruins. In all their gates I have set the dread of the sharp sword, the sword that is furbished to glitter, that is made ready for slaughter.
    16: Be thou sharpened, go to the right hand, or to the left, which way soever thou hast a mind to set thy face. 
    17: And I will clap my hands together, and will satisfy my indignation: I the Lord have spoken. 
    18: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying: 
    19: And thou son of man, set thee two ways, for the sword of the king of Babylon to come: both shall come forth out of one land: and with his hand he shall draw lots, he shall consult at the head of the way of the city. 
    20: Thou shalt make a way that the sword may come to Rabbath of the children of Ammon, and to Juda unto Jerusalem the strong city.
    21: For the king of Babylon stood in the highway, at the head of two ways, seeking divination, shuffling arrows: he inquired of the idols, and consulted entrails. 
    22: On his right hand was the divination for Jerusalem, to set battering rams, to open the mouth in slaughter, to lift up the voice in howling, to set engines against the gates, to cast up a mount, to build forts. 
    23: And he shall be in their eyes as one consulting the oracle in vain, and imitating the leisure of sabbaths: but he will call to remembrance the iniquity that they may be taken. 
    24: Therefore thus saith the Lord God: Because you have remembered your iniquity, and have discovered your prevarications, and your sins have appeared in all your devices: because, I say, you have remembered, you shall be taken with the hand. 
    25: But thou profane wicked prince of Israel, whose day is come that hath been appointed in the time of iniquity:
    26: Thus saith the Lord God: Remove the diadem, take off the crown: is it not this that hath exalted the low one, and brought down him that was high? 
    27: I will shew it to be iniquity, iniquity, iniquity: but this was not done till he came to whom judgment belongeth, and I will give it him. 
    28: And thou son of man, prophesy, and say: Thus saith the Lord God concerning the children of Ammon, and concerning their reproach, and thou shalt say: O sword, O sword, come out of the scabbard to kill, be furbished to destroy, and to glitter, 
    29: Whilst they see vain things in thy regard, and they divine lies: to bring thee upon the necks of the wicked that are wounded, whose appointed day is come in the time of iniquity. 
    30: Return into thy sheath. I will judge thee in the place wherein thou wast created, in the land of thy nativity.
    31: And I will pour out upon thee my indignation: in the fire of my rage will I blow upon thee, and will give thee into the hands of men that are brutish and contrive thy destruction. 
    32: Thou shalt be fuel for the fire, thy blood shall be in the midst of the land, thou shalt be forgotten: for I the Lord have spoken it.

  Chapter 22.

    1: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying: 
    2: And thou son of man, dost thou not judge, dost thou not judge the city of blood? 
    3: And thou shalt shew her all her abominations, and shalt say: Thus saith the Lord God: This is the city that sheddeth blood in the midst of her, that her time may come: and that hath made idols against herself, to defile herself. 
    4: Thou art become guilty in thy blood which thou hast shed: and thou art defiled in thy idols which thou hast made: and thou hast made thy days to draw near, and hast brought on the time of thy years: therefore have I made thee a reproach to the Gentiles, and a mockery to all countries. 
    5: Those that are near, and those that are far from thee, shall triumph over thee: thou filthy one, infamous, great in destruction.
    6: Behold the princes of Israel, every one hath employed his arm in thee to shed blood. 
    7: They have abused father and mother in thee, they have oppressed the stranger in the midst of thee, they have grieved the fatherless and widow in thee. 
    8: Thou hast despised my sanctuaries, and profaned my sabbaths. 
    9: Slanderers have been in thee to shed blood, and they have eaten upon the mountains in thee, they have committed wickedness in the midst of thee. 
    10: They have discovered the nakedness of their father in thee, they have humbled the uncleanness of the menstruous woman in thee.
    11: And every one hath committed abomination with his neighbour's wife, and the father in law hath wickedly defiled his daughter in law, the brother hath oppressed his sister the daughter of his father in thee. 
    12: They have taken gifts in thee to shed blood: thou hast taken usury and increase, and hast covetously oppressed thy neighbours: and thou hast forgotten me, saith the Lord God. 
    13: Behold, I have clapped my hands at thy covetousness, which thou hast exercised : and at the blood that hath been shed in the midst of thee. 
    14: Shall thy heart endure, or shall thy hands prevail ill the days which I will bring upon thee: I the Lord have spoken, and will do it. 
    15: And I will disperse thee in the nations, and will scatter thee among the countries, and I will put an end to thy uncleanness in thee.
    16: And I will possess thee in the sight of the Gentiles, and thou shalt know that I am the Lord. 
    17: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying: 
    18: Son of man, the house of Israel is become dross to me: all these are brass, and tin, and iron, and lead, in the midst of the furnace: they are become the dross of silver. 
    19: Therefore thus saith the Lord God: Because you are all turned into dross, therefore behold I will gather you together in the midst of Jerusalem. 
    20: As they gather silver, and brass, and tin, and iron, and lead in the midst of the furnace: that I may kindle a fire in it to melt it: so will I gather you together in my fury and in my wrath, and will take my rest, and I will melt you down.
    21: And I will gather you together, and will burn you in the fire of my wrath, and you shall be melted in the midst thereof. 
    22: As silver is melted in the midst of the furnace, so shall you be in the midst thereof: and you shall know that I am the Lord, when I have poured out my indignation upon you. 
    23: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying: 
    24: Son of man, say to her: Thou art a land that is unclean, and not rained upon in the day of wrath. 
    25: There is a conspiracy of prophets in the midst thereof: like a lion that roareth and catcheth the prey, they have devoured souls, they have taken riches and hire, they have made many widows in the midst thereof.
    26: Her priests have despised my law, and have defiled my sanctuaries: they have put no difference between holy and profane: nor have distinguished between the polluted and the clean: and they have turned away their eyes from my sabbaths, and I was profaned in the midst of them. 
    27: Her princes in the midst of her, are like wolves ravening the prey to shed blood, and to destroy souls, and to run after gains through covetousness. 
    28: And her prophets have daubed them without tempering the mortar, seeing vain things, and divining lies unto them, saying: Thus saith the Lord God: when the Lord hath not spoken. 
    29: The people of the land have used oppression, and committed robbery: they afflicted the needy and poor, and they oppressed the stranger by calumny without judgment. 
    30: And I sought among them for a man that might set up a hedge, and stand in the gap before me in favour of the land, that I might not destroy it: and I found none.
    31: And I poured out my indignation upon them, in the fire of my wrath I consumed them: I have rendered their way upon their own head, saith the Lord God.

  Chapter 23.

    1: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying: 
    2: Son of man, there were two women, daughters of one mother. 
    3: And they committed fornication in Egypt, in their youth they committed fornication: there were their breasts pressed down, and the teats of their virginity were bruised. 
    4: And their names were Oolla the elder, and Ooliba her younger sister: and I took them, and they bore sons and daughters. Now for their names, Samaria is Oolla, and Jerusalem is Ooliba. 
    5: And Oolla committed fornication against me, and doted on her lovers, on the Assyrians that came to her,
    6: Who were clothed with blue, princes, and rulers, beautiful youths, all horsemen, mounted upon horses. 
    7: And she committed her fornications with those chosen men, all sons of the Assyrians: and she defiled herself with the uncleanness of all them on whom she doted. 
    8: Moreover also she did not forsake her fornications which she had committed in Egypt: for they also lay with her in her youth, and they bruised the breasts of her virginity, and poured out their fornication upon her. 
    9: Therefore have I delivered her into the hands of her lovers, into the hands of the sons of the Assyrians, upon whose lust she doted. 
    10: They discovered her disgrace, took away her sons and daughters, and slew her with the sword: and they became infamous women, and they executed judgments in her.
    11: And when her sister Ooliba saw this, she was mad with lust more than she: and she carried her fornication beyond the fornication of her sister. 
    12: Impudently prostituting herself to the children of the Assyrians, the princes, and rulers that came to her, clothed with divers colours, to the horsemen that rode upon horses, and to young men all of great beauty. 
    13: And I saw that she was defiled, and that they both took one way. 
    14: And she increased her fornications: and when she had seen men painted on the wall, the images of the Chaldeans set forth in colours, 
    15: And girded with girdles about their reins, and with dyed turbans on their heads, the resemblance of all the captains, the likeness of the sons of Babylon, and of the land of the Chaldeans wherein they were born,
    16: She doted upon them with the lust of her eyes, and she sent messengers to them into Chaldea. 
    17: And when the sons of Babylon were come to her to the bed of love, they defiled her with their fornications, and she was polluted by them, and her soul was glutted with them. 
    18: And she discovered her fornications, and discovered her disgrace: and my soul was alienated from her, as my soul was alienated from her sister. 
    19: For she multiplied her fornications, remembering the days of her youth, in which she played the harlot in the land of Egypt. 
    20: And she was mad with lust after lying with them whose flesh is as the flesh of asses: and whose issue as the issue of horses.
    21: And thou hast renewed the wickedness of thy youth, when thy breasts were pressed in Egypt, and the paps of thy virginity broken. 
    22: Therefore, Ooliba, thus saith the Lord God: Behold I will raise up against thee all thy lovers with whom thy soul hath been glutted: and I will gather them together against thee round about. 
    23: The children of Babylon, and all the Chaldeans, the nobles, and the kings, and princes, all the sons of the Assyrians, beautiful young men, all the captains, and rulers, the princes of princes, and the renowned horsemen. 
    24: And they shall come upon thee well appointed with chariot and wheel, a multitude of people: they shall be armed against thee on every side with breastplate, and buckler, and helmet: and I will set judgment before them, and they shall judge thee by their judgments. 
    25: And I will set my jealousy against thee, which they shall execute upon thee with fury: they shall cut off thy nose and thy ears: and what remains shall fall by the sword: they shall take thy sons, and thy daughters, and thy residue shall be devoured by fire.
    26: And they shall strip thee of thy garments, and take away the instruments of thy glory. 
    27: And I will put an end to thy wickedness in thee, and thy fornication brought out of the land of Egypt: neither shalt thou lift up thy eyes to them, nor remember Egypt any more. 
    28: For thus saith the Lord God: Behold, I will deliver thee into the hands of them whom thou hatest, into their hands with whom thy soul hath been glutted. 
    29: And they shall deal with thee in hatred, and they shall take away all thy labours, and shall let thee go naked, and full of disgrace, and the disgrace of thy fornication shall be discovered, thy wickedness, and thy fornications. 
    30: They have done these things to thee, because thou hast played the harlot with the nations among which thou wast defiled with their idols.
    31: Thou hast walked in the way of thy sister, and I will give her cup into thy hand. 
    32: Thus saith the Lord God: Thou shalt drink thy sister's cup, deep, and wide: thou shalt be had in derision and scorn, which containeth very much. 
    33: Thou shalt be filled with drunkenness, and sorrow: with the cup of grief, and sadness, with the cup of thy sister Samaria. 
    34: And thou shalt drink it, and shalt drink it up even to the dregs, and thou shalt devour the fragments thereof, thou shalt rend thy breasts: because I have spoken it, saith the Lord God. 
    35: Therefore thus saith the Lord God: Because thou hast forgotten me, and hast cast me off behind thy back, bear thou also thy wickedness, and thy fornications.
    36: And the Lord spoke to me, saying: Son of man, dost thou judge Oolla, and Ooliba, and dost thou declare to them their wicked deeds? 
    37: Because they have committed adultery, and blood is in their hands, and they have committed fornication with their idols: moreover also their children, whom they bore to me, they have offered to them to be devoured. 
    38: Yea, and they have done this to me. They polluted my sanctuary on the same day, and profaned my sabbaths. 
    39: And when they sacrificed their children to their idols, and went into my sanctuary the same day to profane it: they did these things even in the midst of my house. 
    40: They sent for men coming from afar, to whom they had sent a messenger: and behold they came: for whom thou didst wash thyself, and didst paint thy eyes, and wast adorned with women's ornaments.
    41: Thou sattest on a very fine bed, and a table was decked before thee: whereupon thou didst set my incense, and my ointment. 
    42: And there was in her the voice of a multitude rejoicing: and to some that were brought of the multitude of men, and that came from the desert, they put bracelets on their hands, and beautiful crowns on their heads. 
    43: And I said to her that was worn out in her adulteries: Now will this woman still continue in her fornication. 
    44: And they went in to her, as to a harlot: so went they in unto Oolla, and Ooliba, wicked women. 
    45: They therefore are just men: these shall judge them as adulteresses are judged, and as shedders of blood are judged: because they are adulteresses, and blood is in their hands.
    46: For thus saith the Lord God: Bring a multitude upon them, and deliver them over to tumult and rapine: 
    47: And let the people stone them with stones, and let them be stabbed with their swords: they shall kill their sons and daughters, and their houses they shall burn with fire. 
    48: And I will take away wickedness out of the land: and all women shall learn, not to do according to the wickedness of them. 
    49: And they shall render your wickedness upon you, and you shall bear the sins of your idols: and you shall know that I am the Lord God.

  Chapter 24.

    1: And the word of the Lord came to me in the ninth year, in the tenth month, the tenth day of the month, saying: 
    2: Son of man, write thee the name of this day, on which the king of Babylon hath set himself against Jerusalem today. 
    3: And thou shalt speak by a figure a parable to the provoking house, and say to them: Thus saith the Lord God: Set on a pot, set it on, I say, and put water into it. 
    4: Heap together into it the pieces thereof, every good piece, the thigh and the shoulder, choice pieces and full of bones. 
    5: Take the fattest of the flock, and lay together piles of bones under it: the seething thereof is boiling hot, and the bones thereof are thoroughly sodden in the midst of it.
    6: Therefore thus saith the Lord God: Woe to the bloody city, to the pot whose rust is in it, and its rust is not gone out of it: cast it out piece by piece, there hath no lot fallen upon it. 
    7: For her blood is in the midst of her, she hath shed it upon the smooth rock: she hath not shed it upon the ground, that it might be covered with dust. 
    8: And that I might bring my indignation upon her, and take my vengeance: I have shed her blood upon the smooth rock, that it should not be covered. 
    9: Therefore thus saith the Lord God: Woe to the bloody city, of which I will make a great bonfire. 
    10: Heap together the bones, which I will burn with fire: the flesh shall be consumed, and the whole composition shall be sodden, and the bones shall be consumed.
    11: Then set it empty upon burning coals, that it may be hot, and the brass thereof may be melted: and let the filth of it be melted in the midst thereof, and let the rust of it be consumed. 
    12: Great pains have been taken, and the great rust thereof is not gone out, not even by fire. 
    13: Thy uncleanness is execrable: because I desired to cleanse thee, and thou art not cleansed from thy filthiness: neither shalt thou be cleansed, before I cause my indignation to rest in thee. 
    14: I the Lord have spoken: it shall come to pass, and I will do it: I will not pass by, nor spare, nor be pacified: I will judge thee according to thy ways, and according to thy doings, saith the Lord. 
    15: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying:
    16: Son of man, behold I take from thee the desire of thy eyes with a stroke: and thou shalt not lament, nor weep: neither shall thy tears run down. 
    17: Sigh in silence, make no mourning for the dead: let the tire of thy head be upon thee, and thy shoes on thy feet, and cover not thy face, nor eat the meat of mourners. 
    18: So I spoke to the people in the morning, and my wife died in the evening: and I did in the morning as he had commanded me. 
    19: And the people said to me: Why dost thou not tell us what these things mean that thou doest? 
    20: And I said to them: The word of the Lord came to me, saying:
    21: Speak to the house of Israel: Thus saith the Lord God: Behold I will profane my sanctuary, the glory of your realm, and the thing that your eyes desire, and for which your soul feareth: your sons, and your daughters, whom you have left, shall fall by the sword. 
    22: And you shall do as I have done: you shall not cover your faces, nor shall you eat the meat of mourners. 
    23: You shall have crowns on your heads, and shoes on your feet: you shall not lament nor weep, but you shall pine away for your iniquities, and every one shall sigh with his brother. 
    24: And Ezechiel shall be unto you for a sign of things to come: according to all that he hath done, so shall you do, when this shall come to pass: and you shall know that I am the Lord God. 
    25: And thou, O son of man, behold in the day wherein I will take away from them their strength, and the joy of their glory, and the desire of their eyes, upon which their souls rest, their sons and their daughters.
    26: In that day when he that escapeth shall come to thee, to tell thee: 
    27: In that day, I say, shall thy mouth be opened to him that hath escaped, and thou shalt speak, and shalt be silent no more: and thou shalt be unto them for a sign of things to come, and you shall know that I am the Lord.

End of day 252.