Day 140:

Reading Job, chapters ['29', '30', '31', '32']:

  Chapter 29.

    1: Job also added, taking up his parable, and said: 
    2: Who will grant me, that I might be according to the months past, according to the days in which God kept me? 
    3: When his lamp shined over my head, and I walked by his light in darkness? 
    4: As I was in the days of my youth, when God was secretly in my tabernacle? 
    5: When the Almighty was with me: and my servants round about me?
    6: When I washed my feet with butter, and the rock poured me out rivers of oil? 
    7: When I went out to the gate of the city, and in the street they prepared me a chair? 
    8: The young men saw me, and hid themselves: and the old men rose up and stood. 
    9: The princes ceased to speak, and laid the finger on their mouth. 
    10: The rulers held their peace, and their tongue cleaved to their throat.
    11: The ear that heard me blessed me, and the eye that saw me gave witness to me: 
    12: Because I had delivered the poor man that cried out; and the fatherless that had no helper. 
    13: The blessing of him that was ready to perish came upon me, and I comforted the heart of the widow. 
    14: I was clad with justice: and I clothed myself with my judgment, as with a robe and a diadem. 
    15: I was an eye to the blind, and a foot to the lame.
    16: I was the father of the poor: and the cause which I knew not, I searched out most diligently. 
    17: I broke the jaws of the wicked man, and out of his teeth I took away the prey. 
    18: And I said: I shall die in my nest, and as a palm tree shall multiply my days. 
    19: My root is opened beside the waters, and dew shall continue in my harvest. 
    20: My glory shall always be renewed, and my bow in my hand shall be repaired.
    21: They that heard me, waited for my sentence, and being attentive held their peace at my counsel. 
    22: To my words they durst add nothing, and my speech dropped upon them. 
    23: They waited for me as for rain, and they opened their mouth as for a latter shower. 
    24: If at any time I laughed on them, they believed not, and the light of my countenance fell not on earth. 
    25: If I had a mind to go to them, I sat first, and when I sat as a king, with his army standing about him, yet I was a comforter of them that mourned.

  Chapter 30.

    1: But now the younger in time scorn me, whose fathers I would not have set with the dogs of my flock: 
    2: The strength of whose hands was to me as nothing, and they were thought unworthy of life itself. 
    3: Barren with want and hunger, who gnawed in the wilderness, disfigured with calamity and misery. 
    4: And they ate grass, and barks of trees, and the root of junipers was their food. 
    5: Who snatched up these things out of the valleys, and when they had found any of them, they ran to them with a cry.
    6: They dwelt in the desert places of torrents, and in caves of earth, or upon the gravel. 
    7: They pleased themselves among these kind of things, and counted it delightful to be under the briers. 
    8: The children of foolish and base men, and not appearing at all upon the earth. 
    9: Now I am turned into their song, and am become their byword. 
    10: They abhor me, and flee far from me, and are not afraid to spit in my face.
    11: For he hath opened his quiver, and hath afflicted me, and hath put a bridle into my mouth. 
    12: At the right hand of my rising, my calamities forthwith arose: they have overthrown my feet, and have overwhelmed me with their paths as with waves. 
    13: They have destroyed my ways, they have lain in wait against me, and they have prevailed, and there was none to help. 
    14: They have rushed in upon me, as when a wall is broken, and a gate opened, and have rolled themselves down to my miseries. 
    15: I am brought to nothing: as a wind thou hast taken away my desire: and my prosperity hath passed away like a cloud.
    16: And now my soul fadeth within myself, and the days of affliction possess me. 
    17: In the night my bone is pierced with sorrows: and they that feed upon me, do not sleep. 
    18: With the multitude of them my garment is consumed, and they have girded me about, as with the collar of my coat. 
    19: I am compared to dirt, and am likened to embers and ashes. 
    20: I cry to thee, and thou hearest me not: I stand up, and thou dost not regard me.
    21: Thou art changed to be cruel toward me, and in the hardness of thy hand thou art against me. 
    22: Thou hast lifted me up, and set me as it were upon the wind, and thou hast mightily dashed me. 
    23: I know that thou wilt deliver me to death, where a house is appointed for every one that liveth. 
    24: But yet thou stretchest not forth thy hand to their consumption: and if they shall fall down thou wilt save. 
    25: I wept heretofore for him that was afflicted, and my soul had compassion on the poor.
    26: I expected good things, and evils are come upon me: I waited for light, and darkness broke out. 
    27: My inner parts have boiled without any rest, the days of affliction have prevented me. 
    28: I went mourning without indignation; I rose up, and cried in the crowd. 
    29: I was the brother of dragons, and companion of ostriches. 
    30: My skin is become black upon me, and my bones are dried up with heat.
    31: My harp is turned to mourning, and my organ into the voice of those that weep.

  Chapter 31.

    1: I made a covenant with my eyes, that I would not so much as think upon a virgin. 
    2: For what part should God from above have in me, and what inheritance the Almighty from on high? 
    3: Is not destruction to the wicked, and aversion to them that work iniquity? 
    4: Doth not he consider my ways, and number all my steps? 
    5: If I have walked in vanity, and my foot hath made haste to deceit:
    6: Let him weigh me in a just balance, and let God know my simplicity. 
    7: If my step hath turned out of the way, and if my heart hath followed my eyes, and if a spot hath cleaved to my hands: 
    8: Then let me sow and let another eat: and let my offspring be rooted out. 
    9: If my heart hath been deceived upon a woman, and if I have laid wait at my friend's door: 
    10: Let my wife be the harlot of another, and let other men lie with her.
    11: For this is a heinous crime, and a most grievous iniquity. 
    12: It is a fire that devoureth even to destruction, and rooteth up all things that spring. 
    13: If I have despised to abide judgment with my manservant, or my maidservant, when they had any controversy against me: 
    14: For what shall I do when God shall rise to judge? and when he shall examine, what shall I answer him? 
    15: Did not he that made me in the womb make him also: and did not one and the same form me in the womb?
    16: If I have denied to the poor what they desired, and have made the eyes of the widow wait: 
    17: If I have eaten my morsel alone, and the fatherless hath not eaten thereof: 
    18: (For from my infancy mercy grew up with me: and it came out with me from my mother's womb:) 
    19: If I have despised him that was perishing for want of clothing, and the poor man that had no covering: 
    20: If his sides have not blessed me, and if he were not warmed with the fleece of my sheep:
    21: If I have lifted up my hand against the fatherless, even when I saw myself superior in the gate: 
    22: Let my shoulder fall from its joint, and let my arm with its bones be broken. 
    23: For I have always feared God as waves swelling over me, and his weight I was not able to bear. 
    24: If I have thought gold my strength, and have said to fine gold: My confidence: 
    25: If I have rejoiced over my great riches, and because my hand had gotten much.
    26: If I beheld the sun when it shined, and the moon going in brightness: 
    27: And my heart in secret hath rejoiced, and I have kissed my hand with my mouth: 
    28: Which is a very great iniquity, and a denial against the most high God. 
    29: If I have been glad at the downfall of him that hated me, and have rejoiced that evil had found him. 
    30: For I have not given my mouth to sin, by wishing a curse to his soul.
    31: If the men of my tabernacle have not said: Who will give us of his flesh that we may be filled? 
    32: The stranger did not stay without, my door was open to the traveller. 
    33: If as a man I have hid my sin, and have concealed my iniquity in my bosom. 
    34: If I have been afraid at a very great multitude, and the contempt of kinsmen hath terrified me: and I have not rather held my peace, and not gone out of the door. 
    35: Who would grant me a hearer, that the Almighty may hear my desire; and that he himself that judgeth would write a book,
    36: That I may carry it on my shoulder, and put it about me as a crown? 
    37: At every step of mine I would pronounce it, and offer it as to a prince. 
    38: If my land cry against me, and with it the furrows thereof mourn: 
    39: If I have eaten the fruits thereof without money, and have afflicted the soul of the tillers thereof: 
    40: Let thistles grow up to me instead of wheat, and thorns instead of barley.

  Chapter 32.

    1: So these three men ceased to answer Job, because he seemed just to himself. 
    2: And Eliu the son of Barachel the Buzite, of the kindred of Ram, was angry and was moved to indignation: now he was angry against Job, because he said he was just before God. 
    3: And he was angry with his friends because they had not found a reasonable answer, but only had condemned Job. 
    4: So Eliu waited while Job was speaking, because they were his elders that were speaking. 
    5: But when he saw that the three were not able to answer, he was exceedingly angry.
    6: Then Eliu the son of Barachel the Buzite answered and said: I am younger in days, and you are more ancient; therefore hanging down my head, I was afraid to shew you my opinion. 
    7: For I hoped that greater age would speak, and that a multitude of years would teach wisdom. 
    8: But, as I see, there is a spirit in men, and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth understanding. 
    9: They that are aged are not the wise men, neither do the ancients understand judgment. 
    10: Therefore I will speak: Hearken to me, I also will shew you my wisdom.
    11: For I have waited for your words, I have given ear to your wisdom, as long as you were disputing in words. 
    12: And as long as I thought you said some thing, I considered: but, as I see, there is none of you that can convince Job, and answer his words. 
    13: Lest you should say: We have found wisdom, God hath cast him down, not man. 
    14: He hath spoken nothing to me, and I will not answer him according to your words. 
    15: They were afraid, and answered no more, and they left off speaking.
    16: Therefore because I have waited, and they have not spoken: they stood, and answered no more: 
    17: I also will answer my part, and will shew my knowledge. 
    18: For I am full of matter to speak of, and the spirit of my bowels straiteneth me. 
    19: Behold, my belly is as new wine which wanteth vent, which bursteth the new vessels. 
    20: I will speak and take breath a little: I will open my lips, and will answer.
    21: I will not accept the person of man, and I will not level God with man. 
    22: For I know not how long I shall continue, and whether after a while my Maker may take me away.

End of day 140.