Day 136:

Reading Job, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: Behold my eye hath seen all these things, and my ear hath heard them, and I have understood them all. 
    2: According to your knowledge I also know: neither am I inferior to you. 
    3: But yet I will speak to the Almighty, and I desire to reason with God. 
    4: Having first shewn that you are forgers of lies, and maintainers of perverse opinions. 
    5: And I wish you would hold your peace, that you might be thought to be wise men.
    6: Hear ye therefore my reproof, and attend to the judgment of my lips. 
    7: Hath God any need of your lie, that you should speak deceitfully for him? 
    8: Do you accept his person, and do you endeavour to judge for God? 
    9: Or shall it please him, from whom nothing can be concealed? or shall he be deceived as a man, with your deceitful dealings? 
    10: He shall reprove you, because in secret you accept his person.
    11: As soon as he shall move himself, he shall trouble you: and his dread shall fall upon you. 
    12: Your remembrance shall be compared to ashes, and your necks shall be brought to clay. 
    13: Hold your peace a little while, that I may speak whatsoever my mind shall suggest to me. 
    14: Why do I tear my flesh with my teeth, and carry my soul in my hands? 
    15: Although he should kill me, I will trust in him: but yet I will reprove my ways in his sight.
    16: And he shall be my saviour: for no hypocrite shall come before his presence. 
    17: Hear ye my speech, and receive with your ears hidden truths. 
    18: If I shall be judged, I know that I shall be found just. 
    19: Who is he that will plead against me? let him come: why am I consumed holding my peace? 
    20: Two things only do not to me, and then from thy face I shall not be hid:
    21: Withdraw thy hand far from me, and let not thy dread terrify me. 
    22: Call me, and I will answer thee: or else I will speak, and do thou answer me. 
    23: How many are my iniquities and sins? make me know my crimes and offences. 
    24: Why hidest thou thy face, and thinkest me thy enemy? 
    25: Against a leaf, that is carried away with the wind, thou shewest thy power, and thou pursuest a dry straw.
    26: For thou writest bitter things against me, and wilt consume me for the sins of my youth. 
    27: Thou hast put my feet in the stocks, and hast observed all my paths, and hast considered the steps of my feet: 
    28: Who am to be consumed as rottenness, and as a garment that is moth-eaten.

  Chapter 14.

    1: Man born of a woman, living for a short time, is filled with many miseries. 
    2: Who cometh forth like a flower, and is destroyed, and fleeth as a shadow, and never continueth in the same state. 
    3: And dost thou think it meet to open thy eyes upon such an one, and to bring him into judgment with thee? 
    4: Who can make him clean that is conceived of unclean seed? is it not thou who only art? 
    5: The days of man are short, and the number of his months is with thee: thou hast appointed his bounds which cannot be passed.
    6: Depart a little from him, that he may rest, until his wished for day come, as that of the hireling. 
    7: A tree hath hope: if it be cut, it groweth green again, and the boughs thereof sprout. 
    8: If its root be old in the earth, and its stock be dead in the dust: 
    9: At the scent of water, it shall spring, and bring forth leaves, as when it was first planted. 
    10: But man when he shall be dead, and stripped and consumed, I pray you where is he?
    11: As if the waters should depart out of the sea, and an emptied river should be dried up: 
    12: So man when he is fallen asleep shall not rise again; till the heavens be broken, he shall not awake, nor rise up out of his sleep. 
    13: Who will grant me this, that thou mayst protect me in hell, and hide me till thy wrath pass, and appoint me a time when thou wilt remember me? 
    14: Shall man that is dead, thinkest thou, live again? all the days in which I am now in warfare, I expect until my change come. 
    15: Thou shalt call me, and I will answer thee: to the work of thy hands thou shalt reach out thy right hand.
    16: Thou indeed hast numbered my steps, but spare my sins. 
    17: Thou hast sealed up my offences as it were in a bag, but hast cured my iniquity. 
    18: A mountain falling cometh to nought, and a rock is removed out of its place. 
    19: Waters wear away the stones, and with inundation the ground by little and little is washed away: so in like manner thou shalt destroy man. 
    20: Thou hast strengthened him for a little while, that he may pass away for ever: thou shalt change his face, and shalt send him away.
    21: Whether his children come to honour or dishonour, he shall not understand. 
    22: But yet his flesh, while he shall live, shall have pain, and his soul shall mourn over him.

  Chapter 15.

    1: And Eliphaz the Themanite, answered, and said: 
    2: Will a wise man answer as if he were speaking in the wind, and fill his stomach with burning heat? 
    3: Thou reprovest him by words, who is not equal to thee, and thou speakest that which is not good for thee. 
    4: As much as is in thee, thou hast made void fear, and hast taken away prayers from before God. 
    5: For thy iniquity hath taught thy mouth, and thou imitatest the tongue of blasphemers.
    6: Thy own mouth shall condemn thee, and not I: and thy own lips shall answer thee. 
    7: Art thou the first man that was born, or wast thou made before the hills? 
    8: Hast thou heard God's counsel, and shall his wisdom be inferior to thee? 
    9: What knowest thou that we are ignorant of? what dost thou understand that we know not? 
    10: There are with us also aged and ancient men, much elder than thy fathers.
    11: Is it a great matter that God should comfort thee? but thy wicked words hinder this. 
    12: Why doth thy heart elevate thee, and why dost thou stare with thy eyes, as if they were thinking great things? 
    13: Why doth thy spirit swell against God, to utter such words out of thy mouth? 
    14: What is man that he should be without spot, and he that is born of a woman that he should appear just? 
    15: Behold among his saints none is unchangeable, and the heavens are not pure in his sight.
    16: How much more is man abominable, and unprofitable, who drinketh iniquity like water? 
    17: I will shew thee, hear me: and I will tell thee what I have seen. 
    18: Wise men confess and hide not their fathers. 
    19: To whom alone the earth was given, and no stranger hath passed among them. 
    20: The wicked man is proud all his days, and the number of the years of his tyranny is uncertain.
    21: The sound of dread is always in his ears: and when there is peace, he always suspecteth treason. 
    22: He believeth not that he may return from darkness to light, looking round about for the sword on every side. 
    23: When he moveth himself to seek bread, he knoweth that the day of darkness is ready at his hand. 
    24: Tribulation shall terrify him, and distress shall surround him, as a king that is prepared for the battle. 
    25: For he hath stretched out his hand against God, and hath strengthened himself against the Almighty.
    26: He hath run against him with his neck raised up, and is armed with a fat neck. 
    27: Fatness hath covered his face, and the fat hangeth down on his sides. 
    28: He hath dwelt in desolate cities, and in desert houses that are reduced into heaps. 
    29: He shall not be enriched, neither shall his substance continue, neither shall he push his root in the earth. 
    30: He shall not depart out of darkness: the flame shall dry up his branches, and he shall be taken away by the breath of his own mouth.
    31: He shall not believe, being vainly deceived by error, that he may be redeemed with any price. 
    32: Before his days be full he shall perish: and his hands shall wither away. 
    33: He shall be blasted as a vine when its grapes are in the first flower, and as an olive tree that casteth its flower. 
    34: For the congregation of the hypocrite is barren, and fire shall devour their tabernacles, who love to take bribes. 
    35: He hath conceived sorrow, and hath brought forth iniquity, and his womb prepareth deceits.

  Chapter 16.

    1: Then Job answered, and said: 
    2: I have often heard such things as these: you are all troublesome comforters. 
    3: Shall windy words have no end? or is it any trouble to thee to speak? 
    4: I also could speak like you: and would God your soul were for my soul. 
    5: I would comfort you also with words, and would wag my head over you.
    6: I would strengthen you with my mouth, and would move my lips, as sparing you. 
    7: But what shall I do? If I speak, my pain will not rest: and if I hold my peace, it will not depart from me. 
    8: But now my sorrow hath oppressed me, and all my limbs are brought to nothing. 
    9: My wrinkles bear witness against me, and a false speaker riseth up against my face, contradicting me. 
    10: He hath gathered together his fury against me, and threatening me he hath gnashed with his teeth upon me: my enemy hath beheld me with terrible eyes.
    11: They have opened their mouths upon me, and reproaching me they have struck me on the cheek, they are filled with my pains. 
    12: God hath shut me up with the unjust man, and hath delivered me into the hands of the wicked. 
    13: I that was formerly so wealthy, am all on a sudden broken to pieces: he hath taken me by my neck, he hath broken me, and hath set me up to be his mark. 
    14: He hath compassed me round about with his lances, he hath wounded my loins, he hath not spared, and hath poured out my bowels on the earth. 
    15: He hath torn me with wound upon wound, he hath rushed in upon me like a giant.
    16: I have sowed sackcloth upon my skin, and have covered my flesh with ashes. 
    17: My face is swollen with weeping, and my eyelids are dim. 
    18: These things have I suffered without the iniquity of my hand, when I offered pure prayers to God. 
    19: O earth, cover not thou my blood, neither let my cry find a hiding place in thee. 
    20: For behold my witness is in heaven, and he that knoweth my conscience is on high.
    21: My friends are full of words: my eye poureth out tears to God. 
    22: And O that a man might so be judged with God, as the son of man is judged with his companion! 
    23: For behold short years pass away and I am walking in a path by which I shall not return.

End of day 136.