Day 218:

Reading Isaiah, chapters ['21', '22', '23', '24']:

  Chapter 21.

    1: The burden of the desert of the sea. As whirlwinds come from the south, it cometh from the desert from a terrible land. 
    2: A grievous vision is told me: he that is unfaithful dealeth unfaithfully: and he that is a spoiler, spoileth. Go up, O Elam, besiege, O Mede: I have made all the mourning thereof to cease. 
    3: Therefore are my loins filled with pain, anguish hath taken hold of me, as the anguish of a woman in labour: I fell down at the hearing of it, I was troubled at the seeing of it. 
    4: My heart failed, darkness amazed me: Babylon my beloved is become a wonder to me. 
    5: Prepare the table, behold in the watchtower them that eat and drink: arise, ye princes, take up the shield.
    6: For thus hath the Lord said to me: Go, and set a watchman: and whatsoever he shall see, let him tell. 
    7: And he saw a chariot with two horsemen, a rider upon an ass, and a rider upon a camel: and he beheld them diligently with much heed. 
    8: And a lion cried out: I am upon the watchtower of the Lord, standing continually by day: and I am upon my ward, standing whole nights. 
    9: Behold this man cometh, the rider upon the chariot with two horsemen, and he answered, and said: Babylon is fallen, she is fallen, and all the graven gods thereof are broken unto the ground. 
    10: O my thrashing and the children of my door, that which I have heard of the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, I have declared unto you.
    11: The burden of Duma calleth to me out of Seir: Watchman, what of the eight? watchman, what of the night? 
    12: The watchman said: The morning cometh, also the night: if you seek, seek: return, come. 
    13: The burden in Arabia. In the forest at evening you shall sleep, in the paths of Dedanim. 
    14: Meeting the thirsty bring him water, you that inhabit the land of the south, meet with bread him that fleeth. 
    15: For they are fled from before the swords, from the sword that hung over them, from the bent bow, from the face of a grievous battle.
    16: For thus saith the Lord to me: Within a year, according to the years of a hireling, all the glory of Cedar shall be taken away. 
    17: And the residue of the number of strong archers of the children of Cedar shall be diminished: for the Lord the God of Israel hath spoken it.

  Chapter 22.

    1: The burden of the valley of vision. What aileth thee also, that thou too art wholly gone up to the housetops? 
    2: Full of clamour, a populous city, a joyous city: thy slain are not slain by the sword, nor dead in battle. 
    3: All the princes are fled together, and are bound hard: all that were found, are bound together, they are fled far off. 
    4: Therefore have I said: Depart from me, I will weep bitterly: labour not to comfort me, for the devastation of the daughter of my people. 
    5: For it is a day of slaughter and of treading down, and of weeping to the Lord the God of hosts in the valley of vision, searching the wall, and magnificent upon the mountain.
    6: And Elam took the quiver, the chariot of the horseman, and the shield was taken down from the wall. 
    7: And thy choice valleys shall be full of chariots, and the horseman shall place themselves in the gate. 
    8: And the covering of Juda shall be discovered, and thou shalt see in that day the armoury of the house of the forest. 
    9: And you shall see the breaches of the city of David, that they are many: and you have gathered together the waters of the lower pool, 
    10: And have numbered the houses of Jerusalem, and broken down houses to fortify the wall.
    11: And you made a ditch between the two walls for the water of the old pool: and you have not looked up to the maker thereof, nor regarded him even at a distance, that wrought it long ago. 
    12: And the Lord, the God of hosts, in that day shall call to weeping, and to mourning, to baldness, and to girding with sackcloth: 
    13: And behold joy and gladness, killing calves, and slaying rams, eating flesh, and drinking wine: Let us eat and drink; for tomorrow we shall die. 
    14: And the voice of the Lord of hosts was revealed in my ears: Surely this iniquity shall not be forgiven you till you die, saith the Lord God of hosts. 
    15: Thus saith the Lord God of hosts: Go, get thee in to him that dwelleth in the tabernacle, to Sobna who is over the temple: and thou shalt say to him:
    16: What dost thou here, or as if thou wert somebody here? for thou hast hewed thee out a sepulchre here, thou hast hewed out a monument carefully in a high place, a dwelling for thyself in a rock. 
    17: Behold the Lord will cause thee to be carried away, as a cock is carried away, and he will lift thee up as a garment. 
    18: He will crown thee with a crown of tribulation, he will toss thee like a ball into a large and spacious country: there shalt thou die, and there shall the chariot of thy glory be, the shame of the house of thy Lord. 
    19: And I will drive thee out From thy station, and depose thee from thy ministry. 
    20: And it shall come to pass in that day, that I will call my servant Eliacim the son of Helcias,
    21: And I will clothe him with thy robe, and will strengthen him with thy girdle, and will give thy power into his hand: and he shall be as a father to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and to the house of Juda. 
    22: And I will lay the key of the house of David upon his shoulder: and he shall open, and none shall shut: and he shall shut, and none shall open. 
    23: And I will fasten him as a peg in a sure place, and he shall be for a throne of glory to the house of his father. 
    24: And they shall hang upon him all the glory of his father's house, divers kinds of vessels, every little vessel, from the vessels of cups even to every instrument of music. 
    25: In that day, saith the Lord of hosts, shall the peg be removed, that was fastened in the sure place: and it shall be broken and shall fall: and that which hung thereon, shall perish, because the Lord hath spoken it.

  Chapter 23.

    1: The burden of Tyre. Howl, ye ships of the sea, for the house is destroyed, from whence they were wont to come: from the land of Cethim it is revealed to them. 
    2: Be silent, you that dwell in the island: the merchants of Sidon passing over the sea, have filled thee. 
    3: The seed of the Nile in many waters, the harvest of the river is her revenue: and she is become the mart of the nations. 
    4: Be thou ashamed, O Sidon: for the sea speaketh, even the strength of the sea, saying: I have not been in labour, nor have I brought forth, nor have I nourished up young men, nor brought up virgins. 
    5: When it shall be heard in Egypt, they will be sorry when they shall hear of Tyre:
    6: Pass over the seas, howl, ye inhabitants of the island. 
    7: Is not this your city, which gloried from of old in her antiquity? her feet shall carry her afar off to sojourn. 
    8: Who hath taken this counsel against Tyre, that was formerly crowned, whose merchants were princes, and her traders the nobles of the earth? 
    9: The Lord of hosts hath designed it, to pull down the pride of all glory, and bring to disgrace all the glorious ones of the earth. 
    10: Pass thy land as a river, O daughter of the sea, thou hast a girdle no more.
    11: He stretched out his hand over the sea, he troubled kingdoms: the Lord hath given a charge against Chanaan, to destroy the strong ones thereof. 
    12: And he said: Thou shalt glory no more, O virgin daughter of Sidon, who art oppressed: arise and sail over to Cethim, there also thou shalt have no, rest. 
    13: Behold the land of the Chaldeans, there was not such a people, the Assyrian founded it: they have led away the strong ones thereof into captivity, they have destroyed the houses thereof, they have brought it to ruin. 
    14: Howl, O ye ships of the sea, for your strength is laid waste. 
    15: And it shall come to pass in that day that thou, O Tyre, shalt be forgotten, seventy years, according to the days of one king: but after seventy years, there shall be unto Tyre as the song of a harlot.
    16: Take a harp, go about the city, thou harlot that hast been forgotten: sing well, sing many a song, that thou mayst be remembered. 
    17: And it shall come to pass after seventy years, that the Lord will visit Tyre, and will bring her back again to her traffic: and she shall commit fornication again with all the kingdoms of the world upon the face of the earth. 
    18: And her merchandise and her hire shall be sanctified to the Lord: they shall not be kept in store, nor laid up: for her merchandise shall be for them that shall dwell before the Lord, that they may eat unto fulness, and be clothed for a continuance.

  Chapter 24.

    1: Behold the Lord shall lay waste the earth, and shall strip it, and shall afflict the face thereof, and scatter abroad the inhabitants thereof. 
    2: And it shall be as with the people, so with the priest: and as with the servant, so with his master: as with the handmaid, so with her mistress: as with the buyer, so with the seller: as with the lender, so with the borrower: as with him that calleth for his money, so with him that oweth. 
    3: With desolation shall the earth be laid waste, and it shall be utterly spoiled: for the Lord hath spoken this word. 
    4: The earth mourned, and faded away, and is weakened: the world faded away, the height of the people of the earth is weakened. 
    5: And the earth is infected by the inhabitants thereof: because they have transgressed the laws, they have changed the ordinance, they have broken the everlasting covenant.
    6: Therefore shall a curse devour the earth, and the inhabitants thereof shall sin: and therefore they that dwell therein shall be mad, and few men shall be left. 
    7: The vintage hath mourned, the vine hath languished away, all the merryhearted have sighed. 
    8: The mirth of timbrels hath ceased, the noise of them that rejoice is ended, the melody of the harp is silent. 
    9: They shall not drink wine with a song: the drink shall be bitter to them that drink it. 
    10: The city of vanity is broken down, every house is shut up, no man cometh in.
    11: There shall be a crying for wine in the streets: all mirth is forsaken: the joy of the earth is gone away. 
    12: Desolation is left in the city, and calamity shall oppress the gates. 
    13: For it shall be thus in the midst of the earth, in the midst of the people, as if a few olives, that remain, should be shaken out of the olive tree: or grapes, when the vintage is ended. 
    14: These shall lift up their voice, and shall give praise: when the Lord shall be glorified, they shall make a joyful noise from the sea. 
    15: Therefore glorify ye the Lord in instruction: the name of the Lord God of Israel in the islands of the sea.
    16: From the ends of the earth we have heard praises, the glory of the just one. And I said: My secret to myself, my secret to myself, woe is me: the prevaricators have prevaricated, and with the prevarication of transgressors they have prevaricated. 
    17: Fear, and the pit, and the snare are upon thee, O thou inhabitant of the earth. 
    18: And it shall come to pass, that he that shall flee from the noise of the fear, shall fall into the pit: and he that shall rid himself out of the pit, shall be taken in the snare: for the flood-gates from on high are opened, and the foundations of the earth shall be shaken. 
    19: With breaking shall the earth be broken, with crushing shall the earth be crushed, with trembling shall the earth be moved. 
    20: With shaking shall the earth be shaken as a drunken man, and shall be removed as the tent of one night: and the iniquity thereof shall be heavy upon it, and it shall fall, and not rise again.
    21: And it shall come to pass, that in that day the Lord shall visit upon the host of heaven on high, and upon the kings of the earth, on the earth. 
    22: And they shall be gathered together as in the gathering of one bundle into the pit, and they shall be shut up there in prison: and after many days they shall be visited. 
    23: And the moon shall blush, and the sun shall be ashamed, when the Lord of hosts shall reign in mount Sion, and in Jerusalem, and shall be glorified in the sight of his ancients.

End of day 218.