Day 296:

Reading Luke, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: And it came to pass, that when the multitudes pressed upon him to hear the word of God, he stood by the lake of Genesareth, 
    2: And saw two ships standing by the lake: but the fishermen were gone out of them, and were washing their nets. 
    3: And going into one of the ships that was Simon's, he desired him to draw back a little from the land. And sitting he taught the multitudes out of the ship. 
    4: Now when he had ceased to speak, he said to Simon: Launch out into the deep, and let down your nets for a draught. 
    5: And Simon answering said to him: Master, we have labored all the night, and have taken nothing: but at thy word I will let down the net.
    6: And when they had done this, they enclosed a very great multitude of fishes, and their net broke. 
    7: And they beckoned to their partners that were in the other ship, that they should come and help them. And they came, and filled both the ships, so that they were almost sinking. 
    8: Which when Simon Peter saw, he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying: Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord. 
    9: For he was wholly astonished, and all that were with him, at the draught of the fishes which they had taken. 
    10: And so were also James and John the sons of Zebedee, who were Simon's partners. And Jesus saith to Simon: Fear not: from henceforth thou shalt catch men.
    11: And having brought their ships to land, leaving all things, they followed him. 
    12: And it came to pass, when he was in a certain city, behold a man full of leprosy, who seeing Jesus, and falling on his face, besought him, saying: Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean. 
    13: And stretching forth his hand, he touched him, saying: I will. Be thou cleansed. And immediately the leprosy departed from him. 
    14: And he charged him that he should tell no man, but, Go, shew thyself to the priest, and offer for thy cleansing according as Moses commanded, for a testimony to them. 
    15: But the fame of him went abroad the more, and great multitudes came together to hear, and to be healed by him of their infirmities.
    16: And he retired into the desert, and prayed. 
    17: And it came to pass on a certain day, as he sat teaching, that there were also Pharisees and doctors of the law sitting by, that were come out of every town of Galilee, and Judea and Jerusalem: and the power of the Lord was to heal them. 
    18: And behold, men brought in a bed a man, who had the palsy: and they sought means to bring him in, and to lay him before him. 
    19: And when they could not find by what way they might bring him in, because of the multitude, they went up upon the roof, and let him down through the tiles with his bed into the midst before Jesus. 
    20: Whose faith when he saw, he said: Man, thy sins are forgiven thee.
    21: And the scribes and Pharisees began to think, saying: Who is this who speaketh blasphemies? Who can forgive sins, but God alone? 
    22: And when Jesus knew their thoughts, answering, he said to them: What is it you think in your hearts? 
    23: Which is easier to say, Thy sins are forgiven thee; or to say, Arise and walk? 
    24: But that you may know that the Son of man hath power on earth to forgive sins, (he saith to the sick of the palsy,) I say to thee, Arise, take up thy bed, and go into thy house. 
    25: And immediately rising up before them, he took up the bed on which he lay; and he went away to his own house, glorifying God.
    26: And all were astonished; and they glorified God. And they were filled with fear, saying: We have seen wonderful things today. 
    27: And after these things he went forth, and saw a publican named Levi, sitting at the receipt of custom, and he said to him: Follow me. 
    28: And leaving all things, he rose up and followed him. 
    29: And Levi made him a great feast in his own house; and there was a great company of publicans, and of others, that were at table with them. 
    30: But the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying to his disciples: Why do you eat and drink with publicans and sinners?
    31: And Jesus answering, said to them: They that are whole, need not the physician: but they that are sick. 
    32: I came not to call the just, but sinners to penance. 
    33: And they said to him: Why do the disciples of John fast often, and make prayers, and the disciples of the Pharisees in like manner; but thine eat and drink? 
    34: To whom he said: Can you make the children of the bridegroom fast, whilst the bridegroom is with them? 
    35: But the days will come, when the bridegroom shall be taken away from them, then shall they fast in those days.
    36: And he spoke also a similitude to them: That no man putteth a piece from a new garment upon an old garment; otherwise he both rendeth the new, and the piece taken from the new agreeth not with the old. 
    37: And no man putteth new wine into old bottles: otherwise the new wine will break the bottles, and it will be spilled, and the bottles will be lost. 
    38: But new wine must be put into new bottles; and both are preserved. 
    39: And no man drinking old, hath presently a mind to new: for he saith, The old is better.

  Chapter 6.

    1: And it came to pass on the second first sabbath, that as he went through the corn fields, his disciples plucked the ears, and did eat, rubbing them in their hands. 
    2: And some of the Pharisees said to them: Why do you that which is not lawful on the sabbath days? 
    3: And Jesus answering them, said: Have you not read so much as this, what David did, when himself was hungry, and they that were with him: 
    4: How he went into the house of God, and took and ate the bread of proposition, and gave to them that were with him, which is not lawful to eat but only for the priests? 
    5: And he said to them: The Son of man is Lord also of the sabbath.
    6: And it came to pass also on another sabbath, that he entered into the synagogue, and taught. And there was a man, whose right hand was withered. 
    7: And the scribes and Pharisees watched if he would heal on the sabbath; that they might find an accusation against him. 
    8: But he knew their thoughts; and said to the man who had the withered hand: Arise, and stand forth in the midst. And rising he stood forth. 
    9: Then Jesus said to them: I ask you, if it be lawful on the sabbath days to do good, or to do evil; to save life, or to destroy? 
    10: And looking round about on them all, he said to the man: Stretch forth thy hand. And he stretched it forth: and his hand was restored.
    11: And they were filled with madness; and they talked one with another, what they might do to Jesus. 
    12: And it came to pass in those days, that he went out into a mountain to pray, and he passed the whole night in the prayer of God. 
    13: And when day was come, he called unto him his disciples; and he chose twelve of them (whom also he named apostles). 
    14: Simon, whom he surnamed Peter, and Andrew his brother, James and John, Philip and Bartholomew, 
    15: Matthew and Thomas, James the son of Alpheus, and Simon who is called Zelotes,
    16: And Jude, the brother of James, and Judas Iscariot, who was the traitor. 
    17: And coming down with them, he stood in a plain place, and the company of his disciples, and a very great multitude of people from all Judea and Jerusalem, and the sea coast both of Tyre and Sidon, 
    18: Who were come to hear him, and to be healed of their diseases. And they that were troubled with unclean spirits, were cured. 
    19: And all the multitude sought to touch him, for virtue went out from him, and healed all. 
    20: And he, lifting up his eyes on his disciples, said: Blessed are ye poor, for yours is the kingdom of God.
    21: Blessed are ye that hunger now: for you shall be filled. Blessed are ye that weep now: for you shall laugh. 
    22: Blessed shall you be when men shall hate you, and when they shall separate you, and shall reproach you, and cast out your name as evil, for the Son of man's sake. 
    23: Be glad in that day and rejoice; for behold, your reward is great in heaven. For according to these things did their fathers to the prophets. 
    24: But woe to you that are rich: for you have your consolation. 
    25: Woe to you that are filled: for you shall hunger. Woe to you that now laugh: for you shall mourn and weep.
    26: Woe to you when men shall bless you: for according to these things did their fathers to the false prophets. 
    27: But I say to you that hear: Love your enemies, do good to them that hate you. 
    28: Bless them that curse you, and pray for them that calumniate you. 
    29: And to him that striketh thee on the one cheek, offer also the other. And him that taketh away from thee thy cloak, forbid not to take thy coat also. 
    30: Give to every one that asketh thee, and of him that taketh away thy goods, ask them not again.
    31: And as you would that men should do to you, do you also to them in like manner. 
    32: And if you love them that love you, what thanks are to you? for sinners also love those that love them. 
    33: And if you do good to them who do good to you, what thanks are to you? for sinners also do this. 
    34: And if you lend to them of whom you hope to receive, what thanks are to you? for sinners also lend to sinners, for to receive as much. 
    35: But love ye your enemies: do good, and lend, hoping for nothing thereby: and your reward shall be great, and you shall be the sons of the Highest; for he is kind to the unthankful, and to the evil.
    36: Be ye therefore merciful, as your Father also is merciful. 
    37: Judge not, and you shall not be judged. Condemn not, and you shall not be condemned. Forgive, and you shall be forgiven. 
    38: Give, and it shall be given to you: good measure and pressed down and shaken together and running over shall they give into your bosom. For with the same measure that you shall mete withal, it shall be measured to you again. 
    39: And he spoke also to them a similitude: Can the blind lead the blind? do they not both fall into the ditch? 
    40: The disciple is not above his master: but every one shall be perfect, if he be as his master.
    41: And why seest thou the mote in thy brother's eye: but the beam that is in thy own eye thou considerest not? 
    42: Or how canst thou say to thy brother: Brother, let me pull the mote out of thy eye, when thou thyself seest not the beam in thy own eye? Hypocrite, cast first the beam out of thy own eye; and then shalt thou see clearly to take out the mote from thy brother's eye. 
    43: For there is no good tree that bringeth forth evil fruit; nor an evil tree that bringeth forth good fruit. 
    44: For every tree is known by its fruit. For men do not gather figs from thorns; nor from a bramble bush do they gather the grape. 
    45: A good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is good: and an evil man out of the evil treasure bringeth forth that which is evil. For out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh.
    46: And why call you me, Lord, Lord; and do not the things which I say? 
    47: Every one that cometh to me, and heareth my words, and doth them, I will shew you to whom he is like. 
    48: He is like to a man building a house, who digged deep, and laid the foundation upon a rock. And when a flood came, the stream beat vehemently upon that house, and it could not shake it; for it was founded on a rock. 
    49: But he that heareth, and doth not, is like to a man building his house upon the earth without a foundation: against which the stream beat vehemently, and immediately it fell, and the ruin of that house was great.

  Chapter 7.

    1: And when he had finished all his words in the hearing of the people, he entered into Capharnaum. 
    2: And the servant of a certain centurion, who was dear to him, being sick, was ready to die. 
    3: And when he had heard of Jesus, he sent unto him the ancients of the Jews, desiring him to come and heal his servant. 
    4: And when they came to Jesus, they besought him earnestly, saying to him: He is worthy that thou shouldest do this for him. 
    5: For he loveth our nation; and he hath built us a synagogue.
    6: And Jesus went with them. And when he was now not far from the house, the centurion sent his friends to him, saying: Lord, trouble not thyself; for I am not worthy that thou shouldest enter under my roof. 
    7: For which cause neither did I think myself worthy to come to thee; but say the word, and my servant shall be healed. 
    8: For I also am a man subject to authority, having under me soldiers: and I say to one, Go, and he goeth; and to another, Come, and he cometh; and to my servant, Do this, and he doth it. 
    9: Which Jesus hearing, marvelled: and turning about to the multitude that followed him, he said: Amen I say to you, I have not found so great faith, not even in Israel. 
    10: And they who were sent, being returned to the house, found the servant whole who had been sick.
    11: And it came to pass afterwards, that he went into a city that is called Naim; and there went with him his disciples, and a great multitude. 
    12: And when he came nigh to the gate of the city, behold a dead man was carried out, the only son of his mother; and she was a widow: and a great multitude of the city was with her. 
    13: Whom when the Lord had seen, being moved with mercy towards her, he said to her: Weep not. 
    14: And he came near and touched the bier. And they that carried it, stood still. And he said: Young man, I say to thee, arise. 
    15: And he that was dead, sat up, and began to speak. And he gave him to his mother.
    16: And there came a fear on them all: and they glorified God, saying: A great prophet is risen up among us: and, God hath visited his people. 
    17: And this rumour of him went forth throughout all Judea, and throughout all the country round about. 
    18: And John's disciples told him of all these things. 
    19: And John called to him two of his disciples, and sent them to Jesus, saying: Art thou he that art to come; or look we for another? 
    20: And when the men were come unto him, they said: John the Baptist hath sent us to thee, saying: Art thou he that art to come; or look we for another?
    21: (And in that same hour, he cured many of their diseases, and hurts, and evil spirits: and to many that were blind he gave sight.) 
    22: And answering, he said to them: Go and relate to John what you have heard and seen: the blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are made clean, the deaf hear, the dead rise again, to the poor the gospel is preached: 
    23: And blessed is he whosoever shall not be scandalized in me. 
    24: And when the messengers of John were departed, he began to speak to the multitudes concerning John. What went ye out into the desert to see? a reed shaken with the wind? 
    25: But what went you out to see? a man clothed in soft garments? Behold they that are in costly apparel and live delicately, are in the houses of kings.
    26: But what went you out to see? a prophet? Yea, I say to you, and more than a prophet. 
    27: This is he of whom it is written: Behold I send my angel before thy face, who shall prepare thy way before thee. 
    28: For I say to you: Amongst those that are born of women, there is not a greater prophet than John the Baptist. But he that is the lesser in the kingdom of God, is greater than he. 
    29: And all the people hearing, and the publicans, justified God, being baptized with John's baptism. 
    30: But the Pharisees and the lawyers despised the counsel of God against themselves, being not baptized by him.
    31: And the Lord said: Whereunto then shall I liken the men of this generation? and to what are they like? 
    32: They are like to children sitting in the marketplace, and speaking one to another, and saying: We have piped to you, and you have not danced: we have mourned, and you have not wept. 
    33: For John the Baptist came neither eating bread nor drinking wine; and you say: He hath a devil. 
    34: The Son of man is come eating and drinking: and you say: Behold a man that is a glutton and a drinker of wine, a friend of publicans and sinners. 
    35: And wisdom is justified by all her children.
    36: And one of the Pharisees desired him to eat with him. And he went into the house of the Pharisee, and sat down to meat. 
    37: And behold a woman that was in the city, a sinner, when she knew that he sat at meat in the Pharisee's house, brought an alabaster box of ointment; 
    38: And standing behind at his feet, she began to wash his feet, with tears, and wiped them with the hairs of her head, and kissed his feet, and anointed them with the ointment. 
    39: And the Pharisee, who had invited him, seeing it, spoke within himself, saying: This man, if he were a prophet, would know surely who and what manner of woman this is that toucheth him, that she is a sinner. 
    40: And Jesus answering, said to him: Simon, I have somewhat to say to thee. But he said: Master, say it.
    41: A certain creditor had two debtors, the one who owed five hundred pence, and the other fifty. 
    42: And whereas they had not wherewith to pay, he forgave them both. Which therefore of the two loveth him most? 
    43: Simon answering, said: I suppose that he to whom he forgave most. And he said to him: Thou hast judged rightly. 
    44: And turning to the woman, he said unto Simon: Dost thou see this woman? I entered into thy house, thou gavest me no water for my feet; but she with tears hath washed my feet, and with her hairs hath wiped them. 
    45: Thou gavest me no kiss; but she, since she came in, hath not ceased to kiss my feet.
    46: My head with oil thou didst not anoint; but she with ointment hath anointed my feet. 
    47: Wherefore I say to thee: Many sins are forgiven her, because she hath loved much. But to whom less is forgiven, he loveth less. 
    48: And he said to her: Thy sins are forgiven thee. 
    49: And they that sat at meat with him began to say within themselves: Who is this that forgiveth sins also? 
    50: And he said to the woman: Thy faith hath made thee safe, go in peace.

  Chapter 8.

    1: And it came to pass afterwards, that he travelled through the cities and towns, preaching and evangelizing the kingdom of God; and the twelve with him: 
    2: And certain women who had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities; Mary who is called Magdalen, out of whom seven devils were gone forth, 
    3: And Joanna the wife of Chusa, Herod's steward, and Susanna, and many others who ministered unto him of their substance. 
    4: And when a very great multitude was gathered together, and hastened out of the cities unto him, he spoke by a similitude. 
    5: The sower went out to sow his seed. And as he sowed, some fell by the way side, and it was trodden down, and the fowls of the air devoured it.
    6: And other some fell upon a rock: and as soon as it was sprung up, it withered away, because it had no moisture. 
    7: And other some fell among thorns, and the thorns growing up with it, choked it. 
    8: And other some fell upon good ground; and being sprung up, yielded fruit a hundredfold. Saying these things, he cried out: He that hath ears to hear, let him hear. 
    9: And his disciples asked him what this parable might be. 
    10: To whom he said: To you it is given to know the mystery of the kingdom of God; but to the rest in parables, that seeing they may not see, and hearing may not understand.
    11: Now the parable is this: The seed is the word of God. 
    12: And they by the way side are they that hear; then the devil cometh, and taketh the word out of their heart, lest believing they should be saved. 
    13: Now they upon the rock, are they who when they hear, receive the word with joy: and these have no roots; for they believe for a while, and in time of temptation, they fall away. 
    14: And that which fell among thorns, are they who have heard, and going their way, are choked with the cares and riches and pleasures of this life, and yield no fruit. 
    15: But that on the good ground, are they who in a good and perfect heart, hearing the word, keep it, and bring forth fruit in patience.
    16: Now no man lighting a candle covereth it with a vessel, or putteth it under a bed; but setteth it upon a candlestick, that they who come in may see the light. 
    17: For there is not any thing secret that shall not be made manifest, nor hidden, that shall not be known and come abroad. 
    18: Take heed therefore how you hear. For whosoever hath, to him shall be given: and whosoever hath not, that also which he thinketh he hath, shall be taken away from him. 
    19: And his mother and brethren came unto him; and they could not come at him for the crowd. 
    20: And it was told him: Thy mother and thy brethren stand without, desiring to see thee.
    21: Who answering, said to them: My mother and my brethren are they who hear the word of God, and do it. 
    22: And it came to pass on a certain day that he went into a little ship with his disciples, and he said to them: Let us go over to the other side of the lake. And they launched forth. 
    23: And when they were sailing, he slept; and there came down a storm of wind upon the lake, and they were filled, and were in danger. 
    24: And they came and awaked him, saying: Master, we perish. But he arising, rebuked the wind and the rage of the water; and it ceased, and there was a calm. 
    25: And he said to them: Where is your faith? Who being afraid, wondered, saying one to another: Who is this, (think you), that he commandeth both the winds and the sea, and they obey him?
    26: And they sailed to the country of the Gerasens, which is over against Galilee. 
    27: And when he was come forth to the land, there met him a certain man who had a devil now a very long time, and he wore no clothes, neither did he abide in a house, but in the sepulchres. 
    28: And when he saw Jesus, he fell down before him; and crying out with a loud voice, he said: What have I to do with thee, Jesus, Son of the most high God? I beseech thee, do not torment me. 
    29: For he commanded the unclean spirit to go out of the man. For many times it seized him, and he was bound with chains, and kept in fetters; and breaking the bonds, he was driven by the devil into the deserts. 
    30: And Jesus asked him, saying: What is thy name? But he said: Legion; because many devils were entered into him.
    31: And they besought him that he would not command them to go into the abyss. 
    32: And there was there a herd of many swine feeding on the mountain; and they besought him that he would suffer them to enter into them. And he suffered them. 
    33: The devils therefore went out of the man, and entered into the swine; and the herd ran violently down a steep place into the lake, and were stifled. 
    34: Which when they that fed them saw done, they fled away, and told it in the city and in the villages. 
    35: And they went out to see what was done; and they came to Jesus, and found the man, out of whom the devils were departed, sitting at his feet, clothed, and in his right mind; and they were afraid.
    36: And they also that had seen, told them how he had been healed from the legion. 
    37: And all the multitude of the country of the Gerasens besought him to depart from them; for they were taken with great fear. And he, going up into the ship, returned back again. 
    38: Now the man, out of whom the devils were departed, besought him that he might be with him. But Jesus sent him away, saying: 
    39: Return to thy house, and tell how great things God hath done to thee. And he went through the whole city, publishing how great things Jesus had done to him. 
    40: And it came to pass, that when Jesus was returned, the multitude received him: for they were all waiting for him.
    41: And behold there came a man whose name was Jairus, and he was a ruler of the synagogue: and he fell down at the feet of Jesus, beseeching him that he would come into his house: 
    42: For he had an only daughter, almost twelve years old, and she was dying. And it happened as he went, that he was thronged by the multitudes. 
    43: And there was a certain woman having an issue of blood twelve years, who had bestowed all her substance on physicians, and could not be healed by any. 
    44: She came behind him, and touched the hem of his garment; and immediately the issue of her blood stopped. 
    45: And Jesus said: Who is it that touched me? And all denying, Peter and they that were with him said: Master, the multitudes throng and press thee, and dost thou say, Who touched me?
    46: And Jesus said: Somebody hath touched me; for I know that virtue is gone out from me. 
    47: And the woman seeing that she was not hid, came trembling, and fell down before his feet, and declared before all the people for what cause she had touched him, and how she was immediately healed. 
    48: But he said to her: Daughter, thy faith hath made thee whole; go thy way in peace. 
    49: As he was yet speaking, there cometh one to the ruler of the synagogue, saying to him: Thy daughter is dead, trouble him not. 
    50: And Jesus hearing this word, answered the father of the maid: Fear not; believe only, and she shall be safe.
    51: And when he was come to the house, he suffered not any man to go in with him, but Peter and James and John, and the father and mother of the maiden. 
    52: And all wept and mourned for her. But he said: Weep not; the maid is not dead, but sleepeth. 
    53: And they laughed him to scorn, knowing that she was dead. 
    54: But he taking her by the hand, cried out, saying: Maid, arise. 
    55: And her spirit returned, and she arose immediately. And he bid them give her to eat.
    56: And her parents were astonished, whom he charged to tell no man what was done.

End of day 296.