Day 128:

Reading 1-Maccabees, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: Now Simon heard that Tryphon was gathering together a very great army, to invade the land of Juda, and to destroy it. 
    2: And seeing that the people was in dread, and in fear, he went up to Jerusalem, and assembled the people: 
    3: And exhorted them, saying: You know what great battles I and my brethren, and the house of my father, have fought for the laws, and the sanctuary, and the distresses that we have seen: 
    4: By reason whereof all my brethren have lost their lives for Israel's sake, and I am left alone. 
    5: And now far be it from me to spare my life in any time of trouble: for I am not better than my brethren.
    6: I will avenge then my nation and the sanctuary, and our children, and wives: for all the heathens are gathered together to destroy us out of mere malice. 
    7: And the spirit of the people was enkindled as soon as they heard these words. 
    8: And they answered with a loud voice, saying: Thou art our leader in the place of Judas, and Jonathan thy brother. 
    9: Fight thou our battles, and we will do whatsoever thou shalt say to us. 
    10: So gathering together all the men of war, he made haste to finish all the walls of Jerusalem, and he fortified it round about.
    11: And he sent Jonathan the son of Absalom, and with him a new army into Joppe, and he cast out them that were in it, and himself remained there. 
    12: And Tryphon removed from Ptolemais with a great army, to invade the land of Juda, and Jonathan was with him in custody. 
    13: But Simon pitched in Addus, over against the plain. 
    14: And when Tryphon understood that Simon was risen up in the place of his brother Jonathan, and that he meant to join battle with him, he sent messengers to him, 
    15: Saying: We have detained thy brother Jonathan for the money that he owed in the king's account, by reason of the affairs which he had the management of.
    16: But now send a hundred talents of silver, and his two sons for hostages, that when he is set at liberty he may not revolt from us, and we will release him. 
    17: Now Simon knew that he spoke deceitfully to him, nevertheless he ordered the money, and the children to be sent: lest he should bring upon himself a great hatred of the people of Israel, who might have said: 
    18: Because he sent not the money, and the children, therefore is he lost. 
    19: So he sent the children, and the hundred talents: and he lied, and did not let Jonathan go. 
    20: And after this Tryphon entered within the country, to destroy it: and they went about by the way that leadeth to Ador: and Simon and his army marched to every place whithersoever they went.
    21: And they that were in the castle, sent messengers to Tryphon, that he should make haste to come through the desert, and send them victuals. 
    22: And Tryphon made ready all his horsemen to come that night: but there fell a very great snow, and he came not into the country of Galaad. 
    23: And when he approached to Bascama, he slew Jonathan and his sons there. 
    24: And Tryphon returned, and went into his own country. 
    25: And Simon sent, and took the bones of Jonathan his brother, and buried them in Modin, in the city of his fathers.
    26: And all Israel bewailed him with great lamentation: and they mourned for him many days. 
    27: And Simon built over the sepulchre of his father and of his brethren, a building lofty to the sight, of polished stone behind and before: 
    28: And he set up seven pyramids one against another for his father and his mother, and his four brethren: 
    29: And round about these he set great pillars: and upon the pillars arms for a perpetual memory: and by the arms ships carved, which might be seen by all that sailed on the sea. 
    30: This is the sepulchre that he made in Modin even unto this day.
    31: But Tryphon when he was upon a journey with the young king Antiochus, treacherously slew him. 
    32: And he reigned in his place, and put on the crown of Asia: and brought great evils upon the land. 
    33: And Simon built up the strong holds of Judea, fortifying them with high towers, and great walls, and gates, and bars: and he stored up victuals in the fortresses. 
    34: And Simon chose men and sent to king Demetrius, to the end that he should grant an immunity to the land: for all that Tryphon did was to spoil. 
    35: And king Demetrius in answer to this request, wrote a letter in this manner:
    36: King Demetrius to Simon the high priest, and friend of kings, and to the ancients, and to the nation of the Jews, greeting. 
    37: The golden crown, and the palm, which you sent, we have received: and we are ready to make a firm peace with you, and to write to the king's chief officers to release you the things that we have released. 
    38: For all that we have decreed in your favour, shall stand in force. The strong holds that you have built, shall be your own. 
    39: And as for any oversight or fault committed unto this day, we forgive it, and the crown which you owed: and if any other thing were taxed in Jerusalem, now let it not be taxed. 
    40: And if any of you be fit to be enrolled among ours, let them be enrolled, and let there be peace between us.
    41: In the year one hundred and seventy the yoke of the Gentiles was taken off from Israel. 
    42: And the people of Israel began to write in the instruments, and public records, The first year under Simon the high priest, the great captain and prince of the Jews. 
    43: In those days Simon besieged Gaza, and camped round about it, and he made engines, and set them to the city, and he struck one tower, and took it. 
    44: And they that were within the engine leaped into the city: and there was a great uproar in the city. 
    45: And they that were in the city went up with their wives and children upon the wall, with their garments rent, and they cried with a loud voice, beseeching Simon to grant them peace.
    46: And they said: Deal not with us according to our evil deeds, but according to thy mercy. 
    47: And Simon being moved, did not destroy them: but yet he cast them out of the city, and cleansed the houses wherein there had been idols, and then he entered into it with hymns, blessing the Lord. 
    48: And having cast out of it all uncleanness, he placed in it men that should observe the law: and he fortified it, and made it his habitation. 
    49: But they that were in the castle of Jerusalem were hindered from going out and coming into the country, and from buying and selling: and they were straitened with hunger, and many of them perished through famine. 
    50: And they cried to Simon for peace, and he granted it to them: and he cast them out from thence, and cleansed the castle from uncleannesses.
    51: And they entered into it the three and twentieth day of the second month, in the year one hundred and seventy-one, with thanksgiving, and branches of palm trees, and harps, and cymbals, and psalteries, and hymns, and canticles, because the great enemy was destroyed out of Israel. 
    52: And he ordained that these days should be kept every year with gladness. 
    53: And he fortified the mountain of the temple that was near the castle, and he dwelt there himself, and they that were with him. 
    54: And Simon saw that John his son was a valiant man for war: and he made him captain of all the forces: and he dwelt in Gazara.

  Chapter 14.

    1: In the year one hundred and seventy-two, king Demetrius assembled his army, and went into Media to get him succours to fight against Tryphon. 
    2: And Arsaces the king of Persia and Media heard that Demetrius was entered within his borders, and he sent one of his princes to take him alive, and bring him to him. 
    3: And he went and defeated the army of Demetrius: and took him, and brought him to Arsaces, and he put him into custody. 
    4: And all the land of Juda was at rest all the days of Simon, and he sought the good of his nation: and his power, and his glory pleased them well all his days. 
    5: And with all his glory he took Joppe for a haven, and made an entrance to the isles of the sea.
    6: And he enlarged the bounds of his nation, and made himself master of the country. 
    7: And he gathered together a great number of captives, and had the dominion of Gazara, and of Bethsura, and of the castle: and took away all uncleanness out of it and there was none that resisted him. 
    8: And every man tilled his land with peace: and the land of Juda yielded her increase, and the trees of the fields their fruit. 
    9: The ancient men sat all in the streets, and treated together of the good things of the land, and the young men put on them glory, and the robes of war. 
    10: And he provided victuals for the cities, and he appointed that they should be furnished with ammunition, so that the fame of his glory was renowned even to the end of the earth.
    11: He made peace in the land, and Israel rejoiced with great joy. 
    12: And every man sat under his vine, and under his fig tree: and there was none to make them afraid. 
    13: There was none left in the land to fight against them: kings were discomfited in those days. 
    14: And he strengthened all those of his people that were brought low, and he sought the law, and took away every unjust and wicked man. 
    15: He glorified the sanctuary, and multiplied the vessels of the holy places.
    16: And it was heard at Rome, and as far as Sparta, that Jonathan was dead: and they were very sorry. 
    17: But when they heard that Simon his brother was made high priest in his place, and was possessed of all the country, and the cities therein: 
    18: They wrote to him in tables of brass, to renew the friendship and alliance which they had made with Judas, and with Jonathan his brethren. 
    19: And they were read before the assembly in Jerusalem. And this is the copy of the letters that the Spartans sent. 
    20: The princes and the cities of the Spartans to Simon the high priest, and to the ancients, and the priests, and the rest of the people of the Jews their brethren, greeting.
    21: The ambassadors that were sent to our people, have told us of your glory, and honour, and joy: and we rejoice at their coming. 
    22: And we registered what was said by them in the councils of the people in this manner: Numenius the son of Antiochus, and Antipater the son of Jason, ambassadors of the Jews, came to us to renew the former friendship with us. 
    23: And it pleased the people to receive the men honourably, and to put a copy of their words in the public records, to be a memorial to the people of the Spartans. And we have written a copy of them to Simon the high priest. 
    24: And after this Simon sent Numenius to Rome, with a great shield of gold the weight of a thousand pounds, to confirm the league with them. And when the people of Rome had heard 
    25: These words, they said: What thanks shall we give to Simon, and his sons?
    26: For he hath restored his brethren, and hath driven away in fight the enemies of Israel from them: and they decreed him liberty, and registered it in tables of brass, and set it upon pillars in mount Sion. 
    27: And this is a copy of the writing: The eighteenth day of the month Elul, in the year one hundred and seventy-two, being the third year under Simon the high priest at Asaramel, 
    28: In a great assembly of the priests, and of the people, and the princes of the nation, and the ancients of the country, these things were notified: Forasmuch as there have often been wars in our country, 
    29: And Simon the son of Mathathias of the children of Jarib, and his brethren have put themselves in danger, and have resisted the enemies of their nation, for the maintenance of their holy places, and the law: and have raised their nation to great glory. 
    30: And Jonathan gathered together his nation, and was made their high priest, and he was laid to his people.
    31: And their enemies desired to tread down and destroy their country, and to stretch forth their hands against their holy places. 
    32: Then Simon resisted and fought for his nation, and laid out much of his money, and armed the valiant men of his nation, and gave them wages: 
    33: And he fortified the cities of Judea, and Bethsura that lieth in the borders of Judea, where the armour of the enemies was before: and he placed there a garrison of Jews. 
    34: And he fortified Joppe which lieth by the sea: and Gazara, which bordereth upon Azotus, wherein the enemies dwelt before, and he placed Jews here: and furnished them with all things convenient for their reparation. 
    35: And the people seeing the acts of Simon, and to what glory he meant to bring his nation, made him their prince, and high priest, because he had done all these things, and for the justice, and faith, which he kept to his nation, and for that he sought by all means to advance his people.
    36: And in his days things prospered in his hands, so that the heathens were taken away out of their country, and they also that were in the city of David in Jerusalem in the castle, out of which they issued forth, and profaned all places round about the sanctuary, and did much evil to its purity. 
    37: And he placed therein Jews for the defence of the country, and of the city, and he raised up the walls of Jerusalem. 
    38: And king Demetrius confirmed him in the high priesthood. 
    39: According to these things he made him his friend, and glorified him with great glory. 
    40: For he had heard that the Romans had called the Jews their friends, and confederates, and brethren, and that they had received Simon's ambassadors with honour:
    41: And that the Jews, and their priests, had consented that he should be their prince, and high priest for ever, till there should arise a faithful prophet: 
    42: And that he should be chief over them, and that he should have the charge of the sanctuary, and that he should appoint rulers over their works, and over the country, and over the armour, and over the strong holds. 
    43: And that he should have care of the holy places: and that he should be obeyed by all, and that all the writings in the country should be made in his name: and that he should be clothed with purple, and gold: 
    44: And that it should not be lawful for any of the people, or of the priests, to disannul any of these things, or to gainsay his words, or to call together an assembly in the country without him: or to be clothed with purple, or to wear a buckle of gold: 
    45: And whosoever shall do otherwise, or shall make void any of these things shall be punished.
    46: And it pleased all the people to establish Simon, and to do according to these words. 
    47: And Simon accepted thereof, and was well pleased to execute the office of the high priesthood, and to be captain, and prince of the nation of the Jews, and of the priests, and to be chief over all. 
    48: And they commanded that this writing should be put in tables of brass, and that they should be set up within the compass of the sanctuary, in a conspicuous place: 
    49: And that a copy thereof should be put in the treasury, that Simon and his sons may have it.

  Chapter 15.

    1: And king Antiochus the son of Demetrius sent letters from the isles of the sea to Simon the priest, and prince of the nation of the Jews, and to all the people: 
    2: And the contents were these: King Antiochus to Simon the high priest, and to the nation of the Jews, greeting. 
    3: Forasmuch as certain pestilent men have usurped the kingdom of our fathers, and my purpose is to challenge the kingdom, and to restore it to its former estate: and I have chosen a great army, and have built ships of war. 
    4: And I design to go through the country that I may take revenge of them that have destroyed our country, and that have made many cities desolate in my realm. 
    5: Now therefore I confirm unto thee all the oblations which all the kings before me remitted to thee, and what other gifts soever they remitted to thee:
    6: And I give thee leave to coin thy own money in thy country: 
    7: And let Jerusalem be holy and free, and all the armour that hath been made, and the fortresses which thou hast built, and which thou keepest in thy hands, let them remain to thee. 
    8: And all that is due to the king, and what should be the king's hereafter, from this present and for ever, is forgiven thee. 
    9: And when we shall have recovered our kingdom, we will glorify thee, and thy nation, and the temple with great glory, so that your glory shall be made manifest in all the earth. 
    10: In the year one hundred and seventy-four Antiochus entered into the land of his fathers, and all the forces assembled to him, so that few were left with Tryphon.
    11: And king Antiochus pursued after him, and he fled along by the sea coast and came to Dora. 
    12: For he perceived that evils were gathered together upon him, and his troops had forsaken him. 
    13: And Antiochus camped above Dora with a hundred and twenty thousand men of war, and eight thousand horsemen: 
    14: And he invested the city, and the ships drew near by sea: and they annoyed the city by land, and by sea, and suffered none to come in, or to go out. 
    15: And Numenius, and they that had been with him, came from the city of Rome, having letters written to the kings, and countries, the contents whereof were these:
    16: Lucius the consul of the Romans, to king Ptolemee, greeting. 
    17: The ambassadors of the Jews our friends came to us, to renew the former friendship and alliance, being sent from Simon the high priest, and the people of the Jews. 
    18: And they brought also a shield of gold of a thousand pounds. 
    19: It hath seemed good therefore to us to write to the kings, and countries, that they should do them no harm, nor fight against them, their cities, or countries: and that they should give no aid to them that fight against them. 
    20: And it hath seemed good to us to receive the shield of them.
    21: If therefore any pestilent men are fled out of their country to you, deliver them to Simon the high priest, that he may punish them according to their law. 
    22: These same things were written to king Demetrius, and to Attalus, and to Ariarathes, and to Arsaces, 
    23: And to all the countries; and to Lampsacus, and to the Spartans, and to Delus, and Myndus, and Sicyon, and Caria, and Samus, and Pamphylia, and Lycia, and Alicarnassus, and Cos, and Side, and Aradus, and Rhodes, and Phaselis, and Gortyna, and Gnidus, and Cyprus, and Cyrene. 
    24: And they wrote a copy thereof to Simon the high priest, and to the people of the Jews. 
    25: But king Antiochus moved his camp to Dora the second time, assaulting it continually, and making engines: and shut up Tryphon, that he could not go out.
    26: And Simon sent to him two thousand chosen men to aid him, silver also, and gold, and abundance of furniture. 
    27: And he would not receive them, but broke all the covenant that he had made with him before, and alienated himself from him. 
    28: And he sent to him Athenobius one of his friends, to treat with him, saying: You hold Joppe, and Gazara, and the castle that is in Jerusalem, which are cities of my kingdom: 
    29: Their borders you have wasted, and you have made great havock in the land, and have got the dominion of many places in my kingdom. 
    30: Now therefore deliver up the cities that you have taken, and the tributes of the places whereof you have gotten the dominion without the borders of Judea.
    31: But if not, give me for them five hundred talents of silver, and for the havock that you have made, and the tributes of the cities other five hundred talents: or else we will come and fight against you. 
    32: So Athenobius the king's friend came to Jerusalem, and saw the glory of Simon and his magnificence in gold, and silver, and his great equipage, and he was astonished, and told him the king's words. 
    33: And Simon answered him, and said to him: We have neither taken other men's land, neither do we hold that which is other men's: but the inheritance of our fathers, which was for some time unjustly possessed by our enemies. 
    34: But we having opportunity claim the inheritance of our fathers. 
    35: And as to thy complaints concerning Joppe and Gazara, they did great harm to the people, and to our country: yet for these we will give a hundred talents. And Athenobius answered him not a word:
    36: But returning in a rage to the king, made report to him of these words, and of the glory of Simon, and of all that he had seen, and the king was exceeding angry. 
    37: And Tryphon fled away by ship to Orthosias. 
    38: And the king appointed Cendebeus captain of the sea coast, and gave him an army of footmen and horsemen. 
    39: And he commanded him to march with his army towards Judea: and he commanded him to build up Gedor, and to fortify the gates of the city, and to war against the people. But the king himself pursued after Tryphon. 
    40: And Cendebeus came to Jamnia, and began to provoke the people, and to ravage Judea, and to take the people prisoners, and to kill, and to build Gedor.
    41: And he placed there horsemen, and an army: that they might issue forth, and make incursions upon the ways of Judea, as the king had commanded him.

  Chapter 16.

    1: Then John came up from Gazara, and told Simon his father what Cendebeus had done against their people. 
    2: And Simon called his two eldest sons, Judas and John, and said to them: I and my brethren, and my father's house, have fought against the enemies of Israel from our youth even to this day: and things have prospered so well in our hands that we have delivered Israel oftentimes. 
    3: And now I am old, but be you instead of me, and my brethren, and go out, and fight for our nation: and the help from heaven be with you. 
    4: Then he chose out of the country twenty thousand fighting men, and horsemen, and they went forth against Cendebeus: and they rested in Modin. 
    5: And they arose in the morning, and went into the plain: and behold a very great army of footmen and horsemen came against them, and there was a running river between them.
    6: And he and his people pitched their camp over against them, and he saw that the people were afraid to go over the river, so he went over first: then the men seeing him, passed over after him. 
    7: And he divided the people, and set the horsemen in the midst of the footmen: but the horsemen of the enemies were very numerous. 
    8: And they sounded the holy trumpets: and Cendebeus and his army were put to flight: and there fell many of them wounded, and the rest fled into the strong hold. 
    9: At that time Judas John's brother was wounded: but John pursued after them, till he came to Cedron, which he had built: 
    10: And they fled even to the towers that were in the fields of Azotus, and he burnt them with fire. And there fell of them two thousand men, and he returned into Judea in peace.
    11: Now Ptolemee the son of Abobus was appointed captain in the plain of Jericho, and he had abundance of silver and gold, 
    12: For he was son in law of the high priest. 
    13: And his heart was lifted up, and he designed to make himself master of the country, and he purposed treachery against Simon, and his sons, to destroy them. 
    14: Now Simon, as he was going through the cities that were in the country of Judea, and taking care for the good ordering of them, went down to Jericho, he and Mathathias and Judas his sons, in the year one hundred and seventy-seven, the eleventh month: the same is the month Sabath. 
    15: And the son of Abobus received them deceitfully into a little fortress, that is called Doch which he had built: and he made them a great feast, and hid men there.
    16: And when Simon and his sons had drunk plentifully, Ptolemee and his men rose up and took their weapons, and entered into the banqueting place, and slew him, and his two sons, and some of his servants. 
    17: And he committed a great treachery in Israel, and rendered evil for good. 
    18: And Ptolemee wrote these things and sent to the king that he should send him an army to aid him, and he would deliver him the country, and their cities, and tributes. 
    19: And he sent others to Gazara to kill John: and to the tribunes he sent letters to come to him, and that he would give them silver, and gold, and gifts. 
    20: And he sent others to take Jerusalem, and the mountain of the temple.
    21: Now one running before, told John in Gazara, that his father and his brethren were slain, and that he hath sent men to kill thee also. 
    22: But when he heard it he was exceedingly afraid: and he apprehended the men that came to kill him, and he put them to death: for he knew that they sought to take him away. 
    23: And as concerning the rest of the acts of John, and his wars, and the worthy deeds, which he bravely achieved, and the building of the walls, which he made, and the things that he did: 
    24: Behold these are written in the book of the days of his priesthood, from the time he was made high priest after his father.

End of day 128.