Day 31:

Reading Numbers, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: And the Lord spoke to Moses in the desert of Sinai in the tabernacle of the covenant, the first day of the second month, the second year of their going out of Egypt, saying: 
    2: Take the sum of all the congregation of the children of Israel by their families, and houses, and the names of every one, as many as are of the male sex, 
    3: From twenty years old and upwards, of all the men of Israel fit for war, and you shall number them by their troops, thou and Aaron. 
    4: And there shall be with you the princes of the tribes, and of the houses in their kindreds, 
    5: Whose names are these: Of Ruben, Elisur the son of Sedeur.
    6: Of Simeon, Salamiel the son of Surisaddai. 
    7: Of Juda, Nahasson the son of Aminadab. 
    8: Of Issachar, Nathanael the son of Suar. 
    9: Of Zabulon, Eliab the son of Helon. 
    10: And of the sons of Joseph: of Ephraim, Elisama the son of Ammiud: of Manasses, Gamaliel the son of Phadassur.
    11: Of Benjamin, Abidan the son of Gedeon. 
    12: Of Dan, Ahiezer the son of Ammisaddai. 
    13: Of Aser, Phegiel the son of Ochran. 
    14: Of Gad, Eliasaph the son of Duel. 
    15: Of Nephtali, Ahira the son of Enan.
    16: These are the most noble princes of the multitude by their tribes and kindreds, and the chiefs of the army of Israel: 
    17: Whom Moses and Aaron took with all the multitude of the common people: 
    18: And assembled them on the first day of the second month, reckoning them up by the kindreds, and houses, and families, and heads, and names of every one from twenty years old and upward, 
    19: As the Lord had commanded Moses. And they were numbered in the desert of Sinai. 
    20: Of Ruben the eldest son of Israel, by their generations and families and houses and names of every head, all that were of the male sex, from twenty years old and upward, that were able to go forth to war,
    21: Were forty-six thousand five hundred. 
    22: Of the sons of Simeon by their generations and families, and houses of their kindreds, were reckoned up by the names and heads of every one, all that were of the male sex, from twenty years old and upward, that were able to go forth to war, 
    23: Fifty-nine thousand three hundred. 
    24: Of the sons of Gad, by their generations and families and houses of their kindreds were reckoned up by the names of every one from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war, 
    25: Forty-five thousand six hundred and fifty.
    26: Of the sons of Juda, by their generations and families and houses of their kindreds, by the names of every one from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war, 
    27: Were reckoned up seventy-four thousand six hundred. 
    28: Of the sons of Issachar, by their generations and families and houses of their kindreds, by the names of every one from twenty years old and upward, all that could go forth to war, 
    29: Were reckoned up fifty-four thousand four hundred. 
    30: Of the sons of Zabulon, by the generations and families and houses of their kindreds, were reckoned up by the names of every one from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war,
    31: Fifty-seven thousand four hundred. 
    32: Of the sons of Joseph, namely, of the sons of Ephraim, by the generations and families and houses of their kindreds, were reckoned up by the names of every one, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war, 
    33: Forty thousand five hundred. 
    34: Moreover of the sons of Manasses, by the generations and families and houses of their kindreds, were reckoned up by the names of every one from twenty years old and upward, all that could go forth to war, 
    35: Thirty-two thousand two hundred.
    36: Of the sons of Benjamin, by their generations and families and houses of their kindreds, were reckoned up by the names of every one from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war, 
    37: Thirty-five thousand four hundred. 
    38: Of the sons of Dan, by their generations and families and houses of their kindreds, were reckoned up by the names of every one from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war, 
    39: Sixty-two thousand seven hundred. 
    40: Of the sons of Aser, by their generations and families and houses of their kindreds, were reckoned up by the names of every one from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war,
    41: Forty-one thousand and five hundred. 
    42: Of the sons of Nephtali, by their generations and families and houses of their kindreds, were reckoned up by the names of every one from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war, 
    43: Fifty-three thousand four hundred. 
    44: These era they who were numbered by Moses and Aaron, and the twelve princes of Israel, every one by the houses of their kindreds. 
    45: And the whole number of the children of Israel by their houses and families, from twenty years old and upward, that were able to go to war,
    46: Were six hundred and three thousand five hundred and fifty men. 
    47: But the Levites in the tribes of their families were not numbered with them. 
    48: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: 
    49: Number not the tribe of Levi, neither shalt thou put down the sum of them with the children of Israel: 
    50: But appoint them over the tabernacle of the testimony, and all the vessels thereof, and whatsoever pertaineth to the ceremonies. They shall carry the tabernacle and all the furniture thereof: and they shall minister, and shall encamp round about the tabernacle.
    51: When you are to go forward, the Levites shall take down the tabernacle: when you are to camp, they shall set it up. What stranger soever cometh to it, shall be slain. 
    52: And the children of Israel shall camp every man by his troops and bands and army. 
    53: But the Levites shall pitch their tents round about the tabernacle, lest there come indignation upon the multitude of the children of Israel, and they shall keep watch, and guard the tabernacle of the testimony. 
    54: And the children of Israel did according to all things which the Lord had commanded Moses.

  Chapter 2.

    1: And the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying: 
    2: All the children of Israel shall camp by their troops, ensigns, and standards, and the houses of their kindreds, round about the tabernacle of the covenant. 
    3: On the east Juda shall pitch his tents by the bands of his army: and the prince of his sons shall be Nahasson the son of Aminadab. 
    4: And the whole sum of the fighting men of his stock, were seventy-four thousand six hundred. 
    5: Next unto him they of the tribe of Issachar encamped, whose prince was Nathanael, the son of Suar.
    6: And the whole number of his fighting men were fifty-four thousand four hundred. 
    7: In the tribe of Zabulon the prince was Eliab the son of Helon. 
    8: And all the army of fighting men of his stock, were fifty-seven thousand four hundred. 
    9: All that were numbered in the camp of Juda, were a hundred and eighty-six thousand four hundred: and they by their troops shall march first. 
    10: In the camp of the sons of Ruben, on the south side, the prince shall be Elisur the son of Sedeur:
    11: And the whole army of his fighting men, that were numbered, were forty-six thousand five hundred. 
    12: Beside him camped they of the tribe of Simeon: whose prince was Salamiel the son of Surisaddai. 
    13: And the whole army of his fighting men, that were numbered, were fifty-nine thousand three hundred. 
    14: In the tribe of Gad the prince was Eliasaph the son of Duel. 
    15: And the whole army of his fighting men that were numbered, were forty-five thousand six hundred and fifty.
    16: All that were reckoned up in the camp of Ruben, were a hundred and fifty-one thousand four hundred and fifty, by their troops: they shall march in the second place. 
    17: And the tabernacle of the testimony shall be carried by the officers of the Levites and their troops. As it shall be set up, so shall it be taken down. Every one shall march according to their places, and ranks. 
    18: On the west side shall be the camp of the sons of Ephraim, whose prince was Elisama, the son of Ammiud. 
    19: The whole army of his fighting men, that were numbered, were forty thousand five hundred. 
    20: And with them the tribe of the sons of Manasses, whose prince was Gamaliel the son of Phadassur.
    21: And the whole army of his fighting men, that were numbered, were thirty-two thousand two hundred. 
    22: In the tribe of the sons of Benjamin the prince was Abidan the son of Gedeon. 
    23: And the whole army of his fighting men, that were reckoned up, were thirty-five thousand four hundred. 
    24: All that were numbered in the camp of Ephraim, were a hundred and eight thousand one hundred by their troops: they shall march in the third place. 
    25: On the north side camped the sons of Dan: whose prince was Ahiezar the son of Ammisaddai.
    26: The whole army of his fighting men, that were numbered, were sixty-two thousand seven hundred. 
    27: Beside him they of the tribe of Aser pitched their tents: whose prince was Phegiel the son of Ochran. 
    28: The whole army of his fighting men, that were numbered, were forty-one thousand five hundred. 
    29: Of the tribe of the sons of Nephtali the prince was Ahira the son of Enan. 
    30: The whole army of his fighting men, were fifty-three thousand four hundred.
    31: All that were numbered in the camp of Dan, were a hundred and fifty-seven thousand six hundred: and they shall march last. 
    32: This is the number of the children of Israel, of their army divided according to the houses of their kindreds and their troops, six hundred and three thousand five hundred and fifty. 
    33: And the Levites were not numbered among the children of Israel: for so the Lord had commanded Moses. 
    34: And the children of Israel did according to all things that the Lord had commanded. They camped by their troops, and marched by the families and houses of their fathers.

  Chapter 3.

    1: These are the generations of Aaron and Moses in the day that the Lord spoke to Moses in mount Sinai. 
    2: And these the names of the sons of Aaron: his firstborn Nadab, then Abiu, and Eleazar, and Ithamar. 
    3: These the names of the sons of Aaron the priests that were anointed, and whose hands were filled and consecrated, to do the functions of priesthood. 
    4: Now Nadab and Abiu died, without children, when they offered strange fire before the Lord, in the desert of Sinai: and Eleazar and Ithamar performed the priestly office in the presence of Aaron their father. 
    5: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying:
    6: Bring the tribe of Levi, and make them stand in the sight of Aaron the priest to minister to him, and let them watch, 
    7: And observe whatsoever appertaineth to the service of the multitude before the tabernacle of the testimony, 
    8: And let them keep the vessels of the tabernacle, serving in the ministry thereof. 
    9: And thou shalt give the Levites for a gift, 
    10: To Aaron and to his sons, to whom they are delivered by the children of Israel. But thou shalt appoint Aaron and his sons over the service of priesthood. The stranger that approacheth to minister, shall be put to death.
    11: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: 
    12: I have taken the Levites from the children of Israel, for every firstborn that openeth the womb among the children of Israel, and the Levites shall be mine. 
    13: For every firstborn is mine: since I struck the firstborn in the land of Egypt: I have sanctified to myself whatsoever is firstborn in Israel both of man and beast, they are mine: I am the Lord. 
    14: And the Lord spoke to Moses in the desert of Sinai, saying: 
    15: Number the sons of Levi by the houses of their fathers and their families, every male from one month and upward.
    16: Moses numbered them as the Lord had commanded. 
    17: And there were found sons of Levi by their names, Gerson and Caath and Merari. 
    18: The sons of Gerson: Lebni and Semei. 
    19: The sons of Caath: Amram, and Jesaar, Hebron and Oziel: 
    20: The sons of Merari: Moholi and Musi.
    21: Of Gerson were two families, the Lebnites, and the Semeites: 
    22: Of which were numbered, people of the male sex from one month and upward, seven thousand five hundred. 
    23: These shall pitch behind the tabernacle on the west, 
    24: Under their prince Eliasaph the son of Lael. 
    25: And their charge shall be in the tabernacle of the covenant:
    26: The tabernacle itself and the cover thereof, the hanging that is drawn before the doors of the tabernacle of the covenant, and the curtains of the court: the hanging also that is hanged in the entry of the court of the tabernacle, and whatsoever belongeth to the rite of the altar, the cords of the tabernacle, and all the furniture thereof. 
    27: Of the kindred of Caath come the families of the Amramites and Jesaarites and Hebronites and Ozielites. These are the families of the Caathites reckoned up by their names: 
    28: All of the male sex from one month and upward, eight thousand six hundred: they shall have the guard of the sanctuary, 
    29: And shall camp on the south side. 
    30: And their prince shall be Elisaphan the son of Oziel:
    31: And they shall keep the ark, and the table and the candlestick, the altars, and the vessels of the sanctuary, wherewith they minister, and the veil, and all the furniture of this kind. 
    32: And the prince of the princes of the Levites, Eleazar, the son of Aaron the priest, shall be over them that watch for the guard of the sanctuary. 
    33: And of Merari are the families of the Moholites, and Musites, reckoned up by their names: 
    34: All of the male kind from one month and upward, six thousand two hundred. 
    35: Their prince Suriel the son of Abihaiel: they shall camp on the north side.
    36: Under their custody shall be the boards of the tabernacle, and the bars, and the pillars and their sockets, and all things that pertain to this kind of service: 
    37: And the pillars of the court round about with their sockets, and the pins with their cords. 
    38: Before the tabernacle of the covenant, that is to say on the east side, shall Moses and Aaron camp, with their sons, having the custody of the sanctuary, in the midst of the children of Israel. What stranger soever cometh unto it, shall be put to death. 
    39: All the Levites, that Moses and Aaron numbered according to the precept of the Lord, by their families, of the male kind from one month and upward, were twenty-two thousand. 
    40: And the Lord said to Moses: Number the firstborn of the male sex of the children of Israel, from one month and upward, and thou shalt take the sum of them.
    41: And thou shalt take the Levites to me for all the firstborn of the children of Israel, I am the Lord: and their cattle for all the firstborn of the cattle of the children of Israel: 
    42: Moses reckoned up, as the Lord had commanded, the firstborn of the children of Israel: 
    43: And the males by their names, from one month and upward, were twenty-two thousand two hundred and seventy-three. 
    44: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saving: 
    45: Take the Levites for the firstborn of the children of Israel, and the cattle of the Levites for their cattle, and the Levites shall be mine. I am the Lord.
    46: But for the price of the two hundred and seventy-three, of the firstborn of the children of Israel, that exceed the number of the Levites, 
    47: Thou shalt take five sides for every head, according to the weight of the sanctuary. A sicle hath twenty obols. 
    48: And then shalt give the money to Aaron and his sons, the price of them that are above. 
    49: Moses therefore took the money of them that were above, and whom they had redeemed from the Levites, 
    50: For the firstborn of the children of Israel, one thousand three hundred and sixty-five sicles, according to the weight of the sanctuary,
    51: And gave it to Aaron and his sons, according to the word that the Lord had commanded him.

  Chapter 4.

    1: And the Lord spoke to Moses, and Aaron, saying: 
    2: Take the sum of the sons of Caath from the midst of the Levites, by their houses and families. 
    3: From thirty years old and upward, to fifty years old, of all that go in to stand and to minister in the tabernacle of the covenant. 
    4: This is the service of the sons of Caath: 
    5: When the camp is to set forward, Aaron and his sons shall go into the tabernacle of the covenant, and the holy of holies, and shall take down the veil that hangeth before the door, and shall wrap up the ark of the testimony in it,
    6: And shall cover it again with a cover of violet skins, and shall spread over it a cloth all of violet, and shall put in the bars. 
    7: They shall wrap up also the table of proposition in a cloth of violet, and shall put with it the censers and little mortars, the cups and bowls to pour out the libations: the leaves shall be always on it: 
    8: And they shall spread over it a cloth of scarlet, which again they shall cover with a covering of violet skins, and shall put in the bars. 
    9: They shall take also a cloth of violet wherewith they shall cover the candlestick with the lamps and tongs thereof and the snuffers and all the oil vessels, which are necessary for the dressing of the lamps: 
    10: And over all they shall put a cover of violet skins and put in the bars.
    11: And they shall wrap up the golden altar also in a cloth of violet, and shall spread over it a cover of violet skins, and put in the bars. 
    12: All the vessels wherewith they minister in the sanctuary, they shall wrap up in a cloth of violet, and shall spread over it a cover of violet skins, and put in the bars. 
    13: They shall cleanse the altar also from the ashes, and shall wrap it up in a purple cloth, 
    14: And shall put it with all the vessels that they use in the ministry thereof, that is to say, firepans, fleshhooks and forks, pothooks and shovels. They shall cover all the vessels of the altar together with a covering of violet skins, and shall put in the bars. 
    15: And when Aaron and his sons have wrapped up the sanctuary and the vessels thereof at the removing of the camp, then shall the sons of Caath enter in to carry the things wrapped up: and they shall not touch the vessels of the sanctuary, lest they die. These are the burdens of the sons of Caath: in the tabernacle of the covenant:
    16: And over them shall be Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest, to whose charge pertaineth the oil to dress the lamps, and the sweet incense, and the sacrifice, that is always offered, and the oil of unction, and whatsoever pertaineth to the service of the tabernacle, and of all the vessels that are in the sanctuary. 
    17: And the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying: 
    18: Destroy not the people of Caath from the midst of the Levites: 
    19: But do this to them, that they may live, and not die, by touching the holies of holies. Aaron and his sons shall go in, and they shall appoint every man his work, and shall divide the burdens that every man is to carry. 
    20: Let not others by any curiosity see the things that are in the sanctuary before they be wrapped up, otherwise they shall die.
    21: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: 
    22: Take the sum of the soils of Gerson also by their houses and families and kindreds. 
    23: From thirty years old and upward, unto fifty years old. Number them all that go in and minister in the tabernacle of the covenant. 
    24: This is the office of the family of the Gersonites: 
    25: To carry the curtains of the tabernacle and the roof of the covenant, the other covering, and the violet covering over all, and the hanging that hangeth in the entry of the tabernacle of the covenant,
    26: The curtains of the court, and the veil in the entry that is before the tabernacle. All things that pertain to the altar, the cords and the vessels of the ministry, 
    27: The sons of Gerson shall carry, by the commandment of Aaron and his sons: and each man shall know to what burden he must be assigned. 
    28: This is the service of the family of the Gersonites in the tabernacle of the covenant, and they shall be under the hand of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest. 
    29: Thou shalt reckon up the sons of Merari also by the families and houses of their fathers, 
    30: From thirty years old and upward, unto fifty years old, all that go in to the office of their ministry, and to the service of the covenant of the testimony.
    31: These are their burdens: They shall carry the boards of the tabernacle and the bars thereof, the pillars and their sockets, 
    32: The pillars also of the court round about, with their sockets and pins and cords. They shall receive by account all the vessels and furniture, and so shall carry them. 
    33: This is the office of the family of the Merarites, and their ministry in the tabernacle of the covenant: and they shall be under the hand of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest. 
    34: So Moses and Aaron and the princes of the synagogue reckoned up the sons of Caath, by their kindreds and the houses of their fathers, 
    35: From thirty years old and upward, unto fifty years old, all that go in to the ministry of the tabernacle of the covenant:
    36: And they were found two thousand seven hundred and fifty. 
    37: This is the number of the people of Caath that go in to the tabernacle of the covenant: these did Moses and Aaron number according to the word of the Lord by the hand of Moses. 
    38: The sons of Gerson also were numbered by the kindreds and houses of their fathers, 
    39: From thirty years old and upward, unto fifty years old, all that go in to minister in the tabernacle of the covenant: 
    40: And they were found two thousand six hundred and thirty.
    41: This is the people of the Gersonites, whom Moses and Aaron numbered according to the word of the Lord. 
    42: The sons of Merari also were numbered by the kindreds and houses of their fathers, 
    43: From thirty years old and upward, unto fifty years old, all that go in to fulfill the rites of the tabernacle of the covenant: 
    44: And they were found three thousand two hundred. 
    45: This is the number of the sons of Merari, whom Moses and Aaron reckoned up according to the commandment of the Lord by the hand of Moses.
    46: All that were reckoned up of the Levites, and whom Moses and Aaron and the princes of Israel took by name, by the kindreds and houses of their fathers, 
    47: From thirty years old and upward, until fifty years old, that go into the ministry of the tabernacle, and to carry the burdens, 
    48: Were in all eight thousand five hundred and eighty. 
    49: Moses reckoned them up according to the word of the Lord, every one according to their office and burdens, as the Lord had commanded him.

End of day 31.