Day 20:

Reading Exodus, chapters ['25', '26', '27', '28']:

  Chapter 25.

    1: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: 
    2: Speak to the children of Israel, that they bring firstfruits to me: of every man that offereth of his own accord, you shall take them. 
    3: And these are the things you must take: gold, and silver, and brass, 
    4: Violet and purple, and scarlet twice dyed, and fine linen, and goats' hair, 
    5: And rams' skins dyed red, and violet skins, and setim wood:
    6: Oil to make lights: spices for ointment, and for sweetsmelling incense: 
    7: Onyx stones, and precious stones to adorn the ephod and the rational. 
    8: And they shall make me a sanctuary, and I will dwell in the midst of them: 
    9: According to all the likeness of the tabernacle which I will shew thee, and of all the vessels for the service thereof: and thus you shall make it: 
    10: Frame an ark of setim wood, the length whereof shall be of two cubits and a half: the breadth, a cubit and a half: the height, likewise, a cubit and a half.
    11: And thou shalt overlay it with the purest gold within and without: and over it thou shalt make a golden crown round about: 
    12: And four golden rings, which thou shall put at the four corners of the ark: let two rings be on the one side, and two on the other. 
    13: Thou shalt make bars also of setim wood, and shalt overlay them with gold. 
    14: And thou shalt put them in through the rings that are in the sides of the ark, that it may be carried on them. 
    15: And they shall be always in the rings, neither shall they at any time be drawn out of them.
    16: And thou shalt put in the ark the testimony which I will give thee. 
    17: Thou shalt make also a propitiatory of the purest gold: the length thereof shall be two cubits and a half, and the breadth a cubit and a half. 
    18: Thou shalt make also two cherubims of beaten gold, on the two sides of the oracle. 
    19: Let one cherub be on the one side, and the other on the other. 
    20: Let them cover both sides of the propitiatory, spreading their wings, and covering the oracle, and let them look one towards the other, their faces being turned towards the propitiatory wherewith the ark is to be covered.
    21: In which thou shalt put the testimony that I will give thee. 
    22: Thence will I give orders, and will speak to thee over the propitiatory, and from the midst of the two cherubims, which shall be upon the ark of the testimony, all things which I will command the children of Israel by thee. 
    23: Thou shalt make a table also of setim wood, of two cubits in length, and a cubit in breadth, and a cubit and half in height. 
    24: And thou shalt overlay it with the purest gold: and thou shalt make to it a golden ledge round about. 
    25: And to the ledge itself a polished crown, four inches high: and over the same another little golden crown.
    26: Thou shalt prepare also four golden rings, and shalt put them in the four corners of the same table over each foot. 
    27: Under the crown shall the golden rings be, that the bars may be put through them, and the table may be carried. 
    28: The bars also themselves thou shalt make of setim wood, and shalt overlay them with gold to bear up the table. 
    29: Thou shalt prepare also dishes, and bowls, censers, and cups, wherein the libations are to be offered of the purest gold. 
    30: And thou shalt set upon the table loaves of proposition in my sight always.
    31: Thou shalt make also a candlestick of beaten work of the finest gold, the shaft thereof, and the branches, the cups, and the bowls, and the lilies going forth from it. 
    32: Six branches shall come out of the sides, three out of the one side, and three out of the other. 
    33: Three cups as it were nuts to every branch, and a bowl withal, and a lily; and three cups, likewise of the fashion of nuts in the other branch, and a bowl withal, and a lily. Such shall be the work of the six branches, that are to come out from the shaft: 
    34: And in the candlestick itself shall be four cups in the manner of a nut, and at every one, bowls and lilies. 
    35: Bowls under two branches in three places, which together make six coming forth out of one shaft.
    36: And both the bowls and the branches shall be of the same beaten work of the purest gold. 
    37: Thou shalt make also seven lamps, and shalt set them upon the candlestick, to give light over against. 
    38: The snuffers also and where the snuffings shall be put out, shall be made of the purest gold. 
    39: The whole weight of the candlestick with all the furniture thereof shall be a talent of the purest gold. 
    40: Look and make it according to the pattern, that was shewn thee in the mount.

  Chapter 26.

    1: And thou shalt make the tabernacle in this manner: Thou shalt make ten curtains of fine twisted linen, and violet and purple, and scarlet twice dyed, diversified with embroidery. 
    2: The length of one curtain shall be twenty-eight cubits, the breadth shall be four cubits. All the curtains shall be of one measure. 
    3: Five curtains shall be joined one to another, and the other five shall be coupled together in like manner. 
    4: Thou shalt make loops of violet in the sides and tops of the curtains, that they may be joined one to another. 
    5: Every curtain shall have fifty loops on both sides, so set on, that one loop may be against another loop, and one may be fitted to the other.
    6: Thou shalt make also fifty rings of gold wherewith the veils of the curtains are to be joined, that it may be made one tabernacle. 
    7: Thou shalt make also eleven curtains of goats' hair, to cover the top of the tabernacle. 
    8: The length of one hair curtain shall be thirty cubits: and the breadth four: the measure of all the curtains shall be equal. 
    9: Five of which thou shalt couple by themselves, and the six others thou shalt couple one to another, so as to double the sixth curtain in the front of the roof. 
    10: Thou shalt make also fifty loops in the edge of one curtain, that it may be joined with the other: and fifty loops in the edge of the other curtain, that it may be coupled with its fellow.
    11: Thou shalt make also fifty buckles of brass, wherewith the loops may be joined, that of all there may be made one covering. 
    12: And that which shall remain of the curtains, that are prepared for the roof, to wit, one curtain that is over and above, with the half thereof thou shalt cover the back parts of the tabernacle. 
    13: And there shall hang down a cubit on the one side, and another on the other side, which is over and above in the length of the curtains, fencing both sides of the tabernacle. 
    14: Thou shalt make also another cover to the roof, of rams' skins dyed red; and over that again another cover of violet coloured skins. 
    15: Thou shalt make also the boards of the tabernacle standing upright of setim wood.
    16: Let every one of them be ten cubits in length, and in breadth one cubit and a half. 
    17: In the sides of the boards shall be made two mortises, whereby one board may be joined to another board: and after this manner shall all the boards be prepared. 
    18: Of which twenty shall be in the south side southward. 
    19: For which thou shalt cast forty sockets of silver, that under every board may be put two sockets at the two corners. 
    20: In the second side also the tabernacle that looketh to the north, there shall be twenty boards,
    21: Having forty sockets of silver, two sockets shall be put under each board. 
    22: But on the west side of the tabernacle thou shalt make six boards. 
    23: And again other two which shall be erected in the corners at the back of the tabernacle. 
    24: And they shall be joined together from beneath unto the top, and one joint shall hold them all. The like joining shall be observed for the two boards also that are to be put in the corners. 
    25: And they shall be in all eight boards, and their silver sockets sixteen, reckoning two sockets for each board.
    26: Thou shalt make also five bars of setim wood, to hold together the boards on one side of the tabernacle. 
    27: And five others on the other side, and as many at the west side: 
    28: And they shall be put along by the midst of the boards from one end to the other. 
    29: The boards also themselves thou shalt overlay with gold, and shall cast rings of gold to be set upon them, for places for the bars to hold together boardwork: which bars thou shalt cover with plates of gold. 
    30: And thou shalt rear up the tabernacle according to the pattern that was shewn thee in the mount.
    31: Thou shalt make also a veil of violet and purple, and scarlet twice dyed, and fine twisted linen, wrought with embroidered work, and goodly variety: 
    32: And thou shalt hang it up before four pillars of setim wood, which themselves also shall be overlaid with gold, and shall have heads of gold, but sockets of silver. 
    33: And the veils shall be hanged on with rings, and within it thou shalt put the ark of the testimony, and the sanctuary, and the holy of holies shall be divided with it. 
    34: And thou shalt set the propitiatory upon the ark of the testimony in the holy of holies. 
    35: And the table without the veil: and over against the table the candlestick in the south side of the tabernacle; for the table shall stand in the north side.
    36: Thou shalt make also a hanging in the entrance of the tabernacle of violet and purple, and scarlet twice dyed, and fine twisted linen with embroidered work. 
    37: And thou shalt overlay with gold five pillars of setim wood, before which the hanging shall be drawn: their heads shall be of gold, and the sockets of brass.

  Chapter 27.

    1: Thou shalt make also an altar of setim wood, which shall be five cubits long and as many broad, that is, foursquare, and three cubits high. 
    2: And there shall be horns at the four corners of the same: and thou shalt cover it with brass. 
    3: And thou shalt make for the uses thereof pans to receive the ashes, and tongs and fleshhooks, and firepans: all its vessels thou shalt make of brass. 
    4: And a grate of brass in manner of a net: at the four corners of which shall be four rings of brass, 
    5: Which thou shalt put under the hearth of the altar: and the grate shall be even to the midst of the altar.
    6: Thou shalt make also two bars for the altar of setim wood, which thou shalt cover with plates of brass: 
    7: And thou shalt draw them through rings, and they shall be on both sides of the altar to carry it. 
    8: Thou shalt not make it solid, but empty and hollow in the inside, as it was shewn thee in the mount. 
    9: Thou shalt make also the court of the tabernacle, in the south side whereof southward there shall be hangings of fine twisted linen of a hundred cubits long for one side. 
    10: And twenty pillars with as many sockets of brass, the heads of which with their engraving of silver.
    11: In like manner also on the north side there shall be hangings of a hundred cubits long, twenty pillars, and as many sockets of brass, and their heads with their engraving of silver. 
    12: But in the breadth of the court, that looketh to the west, there shall be hangings of fifty cubits, and ten pillars, and as many sockets. 
    13: In that breadth also of the court, which looketh to the east, there shall be fifty cubits. 
    14: In which there shall be for one side hangings of fifteen cubits, and three pillars and as many sockets. 
    15: And in the other side there shall be hangings of fifteen cubits, with three pillars and as many sockets.
    16: And in the entrance of the court there shall be made a hanging of twenty cubits of violet and purple, and scarlet twice dyed, and fine twisted linen, with embroidered work: it shall have four pillars with as many sockets. 
    17: All the pillars of the court round about shall be garnished with plates of silver, silver heads and sockets of brass. 
    18: In length the court shall take up a hundred cubits, in breadth fifty, the height shall be of five cubits, and it shall be made of fine twisted linen, and shall have sockets of brass. 
    19: All the vessels of the tabernacle for all uses and ceremonies, and the pins both of it, and of the court, thou shalt make of brass. 
    20: Command the children of Israel that they bring thee the purest oil of the olives, and beaten with a pestle: that a lamp may burn always,
    21: In the tabernacle of the testimony without the veil that hangs before the testimony. And Aaron and his sons shall order it, that it may give light before the Lord until the morning. It shall be a perpetual observance throughout their successions among the children of Israel.

  Chapter 28.

    1: Take unto thee also Aaron thy brother with his sons, from among the children of Israel, that they may minister to me in the priest's office: Aaron, Nadab, and Abiu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. 
    2: And thou shalt make a holy vesture for Aaron thy brother for glory and for beauty. 
    3: And thou shalt speak to all the wise of heart, whom I have filled with the spirit of wisdom, that they may make Aaron's vestments, in which he being consecrated may minister to me. 
    4: And these shall be the vestments that they shall make: A rational and an ephod, a tunick and a strait linen garment, a mitre and a girdle. They shall make the holy vestments for thy brother Aaron and his sons, that they may do the office of priesthood unto me. 
    5: And they shall take gold, and violet, and purple, and scarlet twice dyed, and fine linen.
    6: And they shall make the ephod of gold, and violet, and purple, and scarlet twice dyed, and fine twisted linen, embroidered with divers colours. 
    7: It shall have the two edges joined in the top on both sides, that they may be closed together. 
    8: The very workmanship also and all the variety of the work shall be of gold, and violet, and purple, and scarlet twice dyed, and fine twisted linen. 
    9: And thou shalt take two onyx stones, and shalt grave on them the names of the children of Israel: 
    10: Six names on one stone, and the other six on the other, according to the order of their birth.
    11: With the work of an engraver and the graving of a jeweller, thou shalt engrave them with the names of the children of Israel, set in gold and compassed about: 
    12: And thou shalt put them in both sides of the ephod, a memorial for the children of Israel. And Aaron shall bear their names before the Lord upon both shoulders, for a remembrance. 
    13: Thou shalt make also hooks of gold. 
    14: And two little chains of the purest gold linked one to another, which thou shalt put into the hooks. 
    15: And thou shalt make the rational of judgment with embroidered work of divers colours, according to the workmanship of the ephod, of gold, violet, and purple, and scarlet twice dyed, and fine twisted linen.
    16: It shall be foursquare and doubled: it shall be the measure of a span both in length and in breadth. 
    17: And thou shalt set in it four rows of stones: in the first row shall be a sardius stone, and a topaz, and an emerald: 
    18: In the second a carbuncle, a sapphire and a jasper. 
    19: In the third a ligurius, an agate, and an amethyst: 
    20: In the fourth a chrysolite, an onyx, and a beryl. They shall be set in gold by their rows.
    21: And they shall have the names of the children of Israel: with twelve names shall they be engraved, each stone with the name of one according to the twelve tribes. 
    22: And thou shalt make on the rational chains linked one to another of the purest gold: 
    23: And two rings of gold, which thou shalt put in the two ends at the top of the rational. 
    24: And the golden chains thou shalt join to the rings, that are in the ends thereof: 
    25: And the ends of the chains themselves thou shalt join together with two hooks on both sides of the ephod, which is towards the rational.
    26: Thou shalt make also two rings of gold which thou shalt put in the top parts of the rational, in the borders that are over against the ephod, and look towards the back parts thereof. 
    27: Moreover also other two rings of gold, which are to be set on each side of the ephod beneath, that looketh towards the nether joining, that the rational may be fitted with the ephod, 
    28: And may be fastened by the rings thereof unto the rings of the ephod with a violet fillet, that the joining artificially wrought may continue, and the rational and the ephod may not be loosed one from the other. 
    29: And Aaron shall bear the names of the children of Israel in the rational of judgment upon his breast, when he shall enter into the sanctuary, a memorial before the Lord for ever. 
    30: And thou shalt put in the rational of judgment doctrine and truth, which shall be on Aaron's breast, when he shall go in before the Lord: and he shall bear the judgment of the children of Israel on his breast, in the sight of the Lord always.
    31: And thou shalt make the tunick of the ephod all of violet, 
    32: In the midst whereof above shall be a hole for the head, and a border round about it woven, as is wont to be made in the outmost parts of garments, that it may not easily be broken. 
    33: And beneath at the feet of the same tunick round about, thou shalt make as it were pomegranates, of violet, and purple, and scarlet twice dyed, with little bells set between: 
    34: So that there shall be a golden bell and a pomegranate, and again another golden bell and a pomegranate. 
    35: And Aaron shall be vested with it in the office of his ministry, that the sound may be heard, when he goeth in and cometh out of the sanctuary, in the sight of the Lord, and that he may not die.
    36: Thou shalt make also a plate of the purest gold: wherein thou shalt grave with engraver's work, Holy to the Lord. 
    37: And thou shalt tie it with a violet fillet, and it shall be upon the mitre, 
    38: Hanging over the forehead of the high priest. And Aaron shall bear the iniquities of those things, which the children of Israel have offered and sanctified, in all their gifts and offerings. And the plate shall be always on his forehead, that the Lord may be well pleased with them. 
    39: And thou shalt gird the tunick with fine linen, and thou shalt make a fine linen mitre, and a girdle of embroidered work. 
    40: Moreover for the sons of Aaron thou shalt prepare linen tunicks, and girdles and mitres for glory and beauty:
    41: And with all these things thou shalt vest Aaron thy brother, and his sons with him. And thou shalt consecrate the hands of them all, and shalt sanctify them, that they may do the office of priesthood unto me. 
    42: Thou shalt make also linen breeches, to cover the flesh of their nakedness from the reins to the thighs: 
    43: And Aaron and his sons shall use them when they shall go in to the tabernacle of the testimony, or when they approach the altar to minister in the sanctuary, lest being guilty of iniquity they die. It shall be a law for ever to Aaron, and to his seed after him.

End of day 20.