Day 33:

Reading Numbers, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: The Lord spoke to Moses in the desert of Sinai, the second year after they were come out of the land of Egypt, in the first month, saying: 
    2: Let the children of Israel make the phase in its due time, 
    3: The fourteenth day of this month in the evening, according to all the ceremonies and justifications thereof. 
    4: And Moses commanded the children of Israel that they should make the phase. 
    5: And they made it in its proper time: the fourteenth day of the month at evening, in mount Sinai. The children of Israel did according to all things that the Lord had commanded Moses.
    6: But behold some who were unclean by occasion of the soul of a man, who could not make the phase on that day, coming to Moses and Aaron, 
    7: Said to them: We are unclean by occasion of the soul of a man. Why are we kept back that we may not offer in its season the offering to the Lord among the children of Israel? 
    8: And Moses answered them: Stay that I may consult the Lord what he will ordain concerning you. 
    9: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: 
    10: Say to the children of Israel: The man that shall be unclean by occasion of one that is dead, or shall be in a journey afar off in your nation, let him make the phase to the Lord.
    11: In the second month, on the fourteenth day of the month in the evening, they shall eat it with unleavened bread and wild lettuce: 
    12: They shall not leave any thing thereof until morning, a nor break a bone thereof, they shall observe all the ceremonies of the phase. 
    13: But if any man is clean, and was not on a journey, and did not make the phase, that soul shall be cut off from among his people, because he offered not sacrifice to the Lord in due season: he shall bear his sin. 
    14: The sojourner also and the stranger if they be among you, shall make the phase to the Lord according to the ceremonies and justifications thereof. The same ordinance shall be with you both for the stranger, and for him that was born in the land. 
    15: Now on the day that the tabernacle was reared up, a cloud covered it. But from the evening there was over the tabernacle, as it were, the appearance of fire until the morning.
    16: So it was always: by day the cloud covered it, and by night as it were the appearance of fire. 
    17: And when the cloud that covered the tabernacle was taken up, then the children of Israel marched forward: and in the place where the cloud stood still, there they camped. 
    18: At the commandment of the Lord they marched, and at his commandment they pitched the tabernacle. All the days that the cloud abode over the tabernacle, they remained in the same place: 
    19: And if it was so that it continued over it a long time, the children of Israel kept the watches of the Lord, and marched not, 
    20: For as many days soever as the cloud stayed over the tabernacle. At the commandment of the Lord they pitched their tents, and at his commandment they took them down.
    21: If the cloud tarried from evening until morning, and immediately at break of day left the tabernacle, they marched forward: and if it departed after a day and a night, they took down their tents. 
    22: But if it remained over the tabernacle for two days or a month or a longer time, the children of Israel remained in the same place, and marched not: but immediately as soon as it departed, they removed the camp. 
    23: By the word of the Lord they pitched their tents, and by his word they marched: and kept the watches of the Lord according to his commandment by the hand of Moses.

  Chapter 10.

    1: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: 
    2: Make thee two trumpets of beaten silver, wherewith thou mayest call together the multitude when the camp is to be removed. 
    3: And when thou shalt sound the trumpets, all the multitude shall gather unto thee to the door of the tabernacle of the covenant. 
    4: If thou sound but once, the princes and the heads of the multitude of Israel shall come to thee. 
    5: But if the sound of the trumpets be longer, and with interruptions, they that are on the east side, shall first go forward.
    6: And at the second sounding and like noise of the trumpet, they who lie on the south side shall take up their tents. And after this manner shall the rest do, when the trumpets shall sound for a march. 
    7: But when the people is to be gathered together, the sound of the trumpets shall be plain, and they shall not make a broken sound. 
    8: And the sons of Aaron the priest shall sound the trumpets: and this shall be an ordinance for ever in your generations. 
    9: If you go forth to war out of your land against the enemies that fight against you, you shall sound aloud with the trumpets, and there shall be a remembrance of you before the Lord your God, that you may be delivered out of the hands of your enemies. 
    10: If at any time you shall have a banquet, and on your festival days, and on the first days of your months, you shall sound the trumpets over the holocausts, and the sacrifices of peace offerings, that they may be to you for a remembrance of your God. I am the Lord your God.
    11: The second year, in the second month, the twentieth day of the month, the cloud was taken up from the tabernacle of the covenant. 
    12: And the children of Israel marched by their troops from the desert of Sinai, and the cloud rested in the wilderness of Pharan. 
    13: And the first went forward according to the commandment of the Lord by the hand of Moses. 
    14: The sons of Juda by their troops: whose prince was Nahasson the son of Aminadab. 
    15: In the tribe of the sons of Issachar, the prince was Nathanael the son of Suar.
    16: In the tribe of Zabulon, the prince was Eliab the son of Helon. 
    17: And the tabernacle was taken down, and the sons of Gerson and Merari set forward, bearing it. 
    18: And the sons of Ruben also marched, by their troops and ranks, whose prince was Helisur the son of Sedeur. 
    19: And in the tribe of Simeon, the prince was Salamiel the son of Surisaddai. 
    20: And in the tribe of Gad, the prince was Eliasaph the son of Duel.
    21: Then the Caathites also marched carrying the sanctuary. So long was the tabernacle carried, till they came to the place of setting it up. 
    22: The sons of Ephraim also moved their camp by their troops, in whose army the prince was Elisama the son of Ammiud. 
    23: And in the tribe of the sons of Manasses, the prince was Gamaliel the son of Phadassur. 
    24: And in the tribe of Benjamin, the prince was Abidan the son of Gedeon. 
    25: The last of all the camp marched the sons of Dan by their troops, in whose army the prince was Ahiezer the son of Ammisaddai.
    26: And in the tribe of the sons of Aser, the prince was Phegiel the son of Ochran. 
    27: And in the tribe of the sons of Nephtali, the prince was Ahira the son of Enan. 
    28: This was the order of the camps, and marches of the children of Israel by their troops, when they set forward. 
    29: And Moses said to Hobab the son of Raguel the Madianite, his kinsman: We are going towards the place which the Lord will give us: come with us, that we may do thee good: for the Lord hath promised good things to Israel. 
    30: But he answered him: I will not go with thee, but I will return to my country, wherein I was born.
    31: And he said: Do not leave us: for thou knowest in what places we should encamp in the wilderness, and thou shalt be our guide. 
    32: And if thou comest with us, we will give thee what is the best of the riches which the Lord shall deliver to us. 
    33: So they marched from the mount of the Lord three days' journey, and the ark of the covenant of the Lord went before them, for three days providing a place for the camp. 
    34: The cloud also of the Lord was over them by day when they marched. 
    35: And when the ark was lifted up, Moses said: Arise, O Lord, and let thy enemies be scattered, and let them that hate thee, flee from before thy face.
    36: And when it was set down, he said: Return, O Lord, to the multitude of the host of Israel.

  Chapter 11.

    1: In the mean time there arose a murmuring of the people against the Lord, as it were repining at their fatigue. And when the Lord heard it he was angry. And the fire of the Lord being kindled against them, devoured them that were at the uttermost part of the camp. 
    2: And when the people cried to Moses, Moses prayed to the Lord, and the fire was swallowed up. 
    3: And he called the name of that place, The burning: for that the fire of the Lord had been kindled against them. 
    4: For a mixt multitude of people, that came up with them, burned with desire, sitting and weeping, the children of Israel also being joined with them, and said: Who shall give us flesh to eat? 
    5: We remember the Ash that we ate in Egypt free cost: the cucumbers come into our mind, and the melons, and the leeks, and the onions, and the garlic.
    6: Our soul is dry, our eyes behold nothing else but manna. 
    7: A Now the manna was like coriander seed, of the colour of bdellium. 
    8: And the people went about, and gathering it, ground it in a mill, or beat it in a mortar, and boiled it in a pot, and made cakes thereof of the taste of bread tempered with oil. 
    9: And when the dew fell in the night upon the camp, the manna also fell with it. 
    10: Now Moses heard the people weeping by their families, every one at the door of his tent. And the wrath of the Lord was exceedingly enkindled: to Moses also the thing seemed insupportable.
    11: And he said to the Lord: Why hast thou afflicted thy servant? wherefore do I not find favour before thee? and why hast thou laid the weight of all this people upon me? 
    12: Have I conceived all this multitude, or begotten them, that thou shouldst say to me: Carry them in thy bosom as the nurse is wont to carry the little infant, and bear them into the land, for which thou hast sworn to their fathers? 
    13: Whence should I have flesh to give to so great a multitude? they weep against me, saying: Give us flesh that we may eat. 
    14: I am not able alone to bear all this people, because it is too heavy for me. 
    15: But if it seem unto thee otherwise, I beseech thee to kill me, and let me find grace in thy eyes, that I be not afflicted with so great evils.
    16: And the Lord said to Moses: Gather unto me seventy men of the ancients of Israel, whom thou knowest to be ancients and masters of the people: and thou shalt bring them to the door of the tabernacle of the covenant, and shalt make them stand there with thee, 
    17: That I may come down and speak with thee: and I will take of thy spirit, and will give to them, that they may bear with thee the burden of the people, and thou mayest not be burthened alone. 
    18: And thou shalt say to the people: Be ye sanctified: tomorrow you shall eat flesh: for I have heard you say: Who will give us flesh to eat? it was well with us in Egypt. That the Lord may give you flesh, and you may eat: 
    19: Not for one day, nor two, nor five, nor ten, no nor for twenty. 
    20: But even for a month of days, till it come out at your nostrils, and become loathsome to you, because you have cast off the Lord, who is in the midst of you, and have wept before him, saying: Why came we out of Egypt?
    21: And Moses said: There are six hundred thousand footmen of this people, and sayest thou: I will give them flesh to eat a whole month? 
    22: Shall then a multitude of sheep and oxen be killed, that it may suffice for their food? or shall the fishes of the sea be gathered together to fill them? 
    23: And the Lord answered him: Is the hand of the Lord unable? Thou shalt presently see whether my word shall come to pass or no. 
    24: Moses therefore came, and told the people the words of the Lord, and assembled seventy men of the ancients of Israel, and made them to stand about the tabernacle. 
    25: And the Lord came down in a cloud, and spoke to him, taking away of the spirit that was in Moses, and giving to the seventy men. And when the spirit had rested on them they prophesied, nor did they cease afterwards.
    26: Now there remained in the camp two of the men, of whom one was called Eldad, and the other Medad, upon whom the spirit rested; for they also had been enrolled, but were not gone forth to the tabernacle. 
    27: And when they prophesied in the camp, there ran a young man, and told Moses, saying: Eldad and Medad prophesy in the camp. 
    28: Forthwith Josue the son of Nun, the minister of Moses, and chosen out of many, said: My lord Moses forbid them. 
    29: But he said: Why hast thou emulation for me? O that all the people might prophesy, and that the Lord would give them his spirit! 
    30: And Moses returned, with the ancients of Israel, into the camp.
    31: And a wind going out from the Lord, taking quails up beyond the sea brought them, and cast them into the camp for the space of one day's journey, on every side of the camp round about, and they flew in the air two cubits high above the ground. 
    32: The people therefore rising up all that day, and night, and the next day, gathered together of quails, he that did least, ten cores: and they dried them round about the camp. 
    33: As yet the flesh was between their teeth, neither had that kind of meat failed: when behold the wrath of the Lord being provoked against the people, struck them with an exceeding great plague. 
    34: And that place was called, The graves of lust: for there they buried the people that had lusted. And departing from the graves of lust, they came unto Haseroth, and abode there.

  Chapter 12.

    1: And Mary and Aaron spoke against Moses, because of his wife the Ethiopian, 
    2: And they said: Hath the Lord spoken by Moses only? hath he not also spoken to us in like manner? And when the Lord heard this, 
    3: (For Moses was a man exceeding meek above all men that dwelt upon earth) 
    4: Immediately he spoke to him, and to Aaron and Mary: Come out you three only to the tabernacle of the covenant. And when they were come out, 
    5: The Lord came down in a pillar of the cloud, and stood in the entry of the tabernacle calling to Aaron and Mary. And when they were come,
    6: He said to them: Hear my words: if there be among you a prophet of the Lord, I will appear to him in a vision, or I will speak to him in a dream. 
    7: But it is not so with my servant Moses a who is most faithful in all my house: 
    8: For I speak to him mouth to mouth: and plainly, and not by riddles and figures doth he see the Lord. Why then were you not afraid to speak ill of my servant Moses? 
    9: And being angry with them he went away: 
    10: The cloud also that was over the tabernacle departed: and behold Mary appeared white as snow with a leprosy. And when Aaron had looked on her, and saw her all covered with leprosy,
    11: He said to Moses: I beseech thee, my lord, lay not upon us this sin, which we have foolishly committed: 
    12: Let her not be as one dead, and as an abortive that is cast forth from the mother's womb. Lo, now one half of her flesh is consumed with the leprosy. 
    13: And Moses cried to the Lord, saying: O God, I beseech thee heal her. 
    14: And the Lord answered him: If her father had spitten upon her face, ought she not to have been ashamed for seven days at least? Let her be separated seven days without the camp, and after wards she shall be called again. 
    15: Mary therefore was put out of the camp seven days: and the people moved not from that place until Mary was called again.

End of day 33.