Day 156:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['49', '50', '51', '52']:

  Chapter 49.

    1: A psalm for Asaph. The God of gods, the Lord hath spoken: and he hath called the earth. From the rising of the sun, to the going down thereof: 
    2: Out of Sion the loveliness of his beauty. 
    3: God shall come manifestly: our God shall come, and shall not keep silence. A fire shall burn before him: and a mighty tempest shall be round about him. 
    4: He shall call heaven from above, and the earth, to judge his people. 
    5: Gather ye together his saints to him: who set his covenant before sacrifices.
    6: And the heavens shall declare his justice: for God is judge. 
    7: Hear, O my people, and I will speak: O Israel, and I will testify to thee: I am God, thy God. 
    8: I will not reprove thee for thy sacrifices: and thy burnt offerings are always in my sight. 
    9: I will not take calves out of thy house: nor he goats out of thy flocks. 
    10: For all the beasts of the woods are mine: the cattle on the hills, and the oxen.
    11: I know all the fowls of the air: and with me is the beauty of the field. 
    12: If I should be hungry, I would not tell thee: for the world is mine, and the fulness thereof. 
    13: Shall I eat the flesh of bullocks? or shall I drink the blood of goats? 
    14: Offer to God the sacrifice of praise: and pay thy vows to the most High. 
    15: And call upon me in the day of trouble: I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me.
    16: But to the sinner God hath said: Why dost thou declare my justices, and take my covenant in thy mouth? 
    17: Seeing thou hast hated discipline: and hast cast my words behind thee. 
    18: If thou didst see a thief thou didst run with him: and with adulterers thou hast been a partaker. 
    19: Thy mouth hath abounded with evil, and thy tongue framed deceits. 
    20: Sitting thou didst speak against thy brother, and didst lay a scandal against thy mother's son:
    21: These things hast thou done, and I was silent. Thou thoughtest unjustly that I should be like to thee: but I will reprove thee, and set before thy face. 
    22: Understand these things, you that forget God; lest he snatch you away, and there be none to deliver you. 
    23: The sacrifice of praise shall glorify me: and there is the way by which I will shew him the salvation of God.

  Chapter 50.

    1: Unto the end, a psalm of David, 
    2: When Nathan the prophet came to him after he had sinned with Bethsabee. 
    3: Have mercy on me, O God, according to thy great mercy. And according to the multitude of thy tender mercies blot out my iniquity. 
    4: Wash me yet more from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin. 
    5: For I know my iniquity, and my sin is always before me.
    6: To thee only have I sinned, and have done evil before thee: that thou mayst be justified in thy words and mayst overcome when thou art judged. 
    7: For behold I was conceived in iniquities; and in sins did my mother conceive me. 
    8: For behold thou hast loved truth: the uncertain and hidden things of thy wisdom thou hast made manifest to me. 
    9: Thou shalt sprinkle me with hyssop, and I shall be cleansed: thou shalt wash me, and I shall be made whiter than snow. 
    10: To my hearing thou shalt give joy and gladness: and the bones that have been humbled shall rejoice.
    11: Turn away thy face from my sins, and blot out all my iniquities. 
    12: Create a clean heart in me, O God: and renew a right spirit within my bowels. 
    13: Cast me not away from thy face; and take not thy holy spirit from me. 
    14: Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation, and strengthen me with a perfect spirit. 
    15: I will teach the unjust thy ways: and the wicked shall be converted to thee.
    16: Deliver me from blood, O God, thou God of my salvation: and my tongue shall extol thy justice. 
    17: O Lord, thou wilt open my lips: and my mouth shall declare thy praise. 
    18: For if thou hadst desired sacrifice, I would indeed have given it: with burnt offerings thou wilt not be delighted. 
    19: A sacrifice to God is an afflicted spirit: a contrite and humbled heart, O God, thou wilt not despise. 
    20: Deal favourably, O Lord, in thy good will with Sion; that the walls of Jerusalem may be built up.
    21: Then shalt thou accept the sacrifice of justice, oblations and whole burnt offerings: then shall they lay calves upon thy altar.

  Chapter 51.

    1: Unto the end, understanding for David, 
    2: When Doeg the Edomite came and told Saul David went to the house of Achimelech. 
    3: Kings 22] 
    4: Why dost thou glory in malice, thou that art mighty in iniquity? 
    5: All the day long thy tongue hath devised injustice: as a sharp razor, thou hast wrought deceit. 
    6: Thou hast loved malice more than goodness: and iniquity rather than to speak righteousness.
    7: Thou hast loved all the words of ruin, O deceitful tongue. 
    8: Therefore will God destroy thee for ever: he will pluck thee out, and remove thee from thy dwelling place: and thy root out of the land of the living. 
    9: The just shall see and fear, and shall laugh at him, and say: 
    10: Behold the man that made not God his helper: But trusted in the abundance of his riches: and prevailed in his vanity. 
    11: But I, as a fruitful olive tree in the house of God, have hoped in the mercy of God for ever, yea for ever and ever.
    12: I will praise thee for ever, because thou hast done it: and I will wait on thy name, for it is good in the sight of thy saints.

  Chapter 52.

    1: Unto the end, for Maeleth, understandings to David. The fool said in his heart: There is no God. 
    2: They are corrupted, and become abominable in iniquities: there is none that doth good. 
    3: God looked down from heaven on the children of men: to see if there were any that did understand, or did seek God. 
    4: All have gone aside, they are become unprofitable together, there is none that doth good, no not one. 
    5: Shall not all the workers of iniquity know, who eat up my people as they eat bread?
    6: They have not called upon God: there have they trembled for fear, where there was no fear. For God hath scattered the bones of them that please men: they have been confounded, because God hath despised them. 
    7: Who will give out of Sion the salvation of Israel? when God shall bring back the captivity of his people, Jacob shall rejoice, and Israel shall be glad.

End of day 156.