Day 152:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['33', '34', '35', '36']:

  Chapter 33.

    1: For David, when he changed his countenance before Achimelech, who dismissed him, and he went his way. 
    2: Kings 21] 
    3: I will bless the Lord at all times, his praise shall be always in my mouth. 
    4: In the Lord shall my soul be praised: let the meek hear and rejoice. 
    5: O magnify the Lord with me; and let us extol his name together. 
    6: I sought the Lord, and he heard me; and he delivered me from all my troubles.
    7: Come ye to him and be enlightened: and your faces shall not be confounded. 
    8: This poor man cried, and the Lord heard him: and saved him out of all his troubles. 
    9: The angel of the Lord shall encamp round about them that fear him: and shall deliver them. 
    10: O taste, and see that the Lord is sweet: blessed is the man that hopeth in him. 
    11: Fear the Lord, all ye his saints: for there is no want to them that fear him.
    12: The rich have wanted, and have suffered hunger: but they that seek the Lord shall not be deprived of any good. 
    13: Come, children, hearken to me: I will teach you the fear of the Lord. 
    14: Who is the man that desireth life: who loveth to see good days? 
    15: Keep thy tongue from evil, and thy lips from speaking guile. 
    16: Turn away from evil and do good: seek after peace and pursue it.
    17: The eyes of the Lord are upon the just: and his ears unto their prayers. 
    18: But the countenance of the Lord is against them that do evil things: to cut off the remembrance of them from the earth. 
    19: The just cried, and the Lord heard them: and delivered them out of all their troubles. 
    20: The Lord is nigh unto them that are of a contrite heart: and he will save the humble of spirit. 
    21: Many are the afflictions of the just; but out of them all will the Lord deliver them.
    22: The Lord keepeth all their bones, not one of them shall be broken. 
    23: The death of the wicked is very evil: and they that hate the just shall be guilty. 
    24: The Lord will redeem the souls of his servants: and none of them that trust in him shall offend.

  Chapter 34.

    1: For David himself. Judge thou, O Lord, them that wrong me: overthrow them that fight against me. 
    2: Take hold of arms and shield: and rise up to help me. 
    3: Bring out the sword, and shut up the way against them that persecute me: say to my soul: I am thy salvation. 
    4: Let them be confounded and ashamed that seek after my soul. Let them be turned back and be confounded that devise against me. 
    5: Let them become as dust before the wind: and let the angel of the Lord straiten them.
    6: Let their way become dark and slippery; and let the angel of the Lord pursue them. 
    7: For without cause they have hidden their net for me unto destruction: without cause they have upbraided my soul. 
    8: Let the snare which he knoweth not come upon him: and let the net which he hath hidden catch him: and into that very snare let them fall. 
    9: But my soul shall rejoice in the Lord; and shall be delighted in his salvation. 
    10: All my bones shall say: Lord, who is like to thee? Who deliverest the poor from the hand of them that are stronger than he; the needy and the poor from them that strip him.
    11: Unjust witnesses rising up have asked me things I knew not. 
    12: They repaid me evil for good: to the depriving me of my soul. 
    13: But as for me, when they were troublesome to me, I was clothed with haircloth. I humbled my soul with fasting; and my prayer shall be turned into my bosom. 
    14: As a neighbour and as an own brother, so did I please: as one mourning and sorrowful so was I humbled. 
    15: But they rejoiced against me, and came together: scourges were gathered together upon me, and I knew not.
    16: They were separated, and repented not: they tempted me, they scoffed at me with scorn: they gnashed upon me with their teeth. 
    17: Lord, when wilt thou look upon me? rescue thou my soul from their malice: my only one from the lions. 
    18: I will give thanks to thee in a great church; I will praise thee in a strong people. 
    19: Let not them that are my enemies wrongfully rejoice over me: who have hated me without cause, and wink with the eyes. 
    20: For they spoke indeed peaceably to me; and speaking in the anger of the earth they devised guile.
    21: And they opened their mouth wide against me; they said: Well done, well done, our eyes have seen it. 
    22: Thou hast seen, O Lord, be not thou silent: O Lord, depart not from me. 
    23: Arise, and be attentive to my judgment: to my cause, my God, and my Lord. 
    24: Judge me, O Lord my God according to thy justice, and let them not rejoice over me. 
    25: Let them not say in their hearts: It is well, it is well, to our mind: neither let them say: We have swallowed him up.
    26: Let them blush: and be ashamed together, who rejoice at my evils. Let them be clothed with confusion and shame, who speak great things against me. 
    27: Let them rejoice and be glad, who are well pleased with my justice, and let them say always: The Lord be magnified, who delights in the peace of his servant. 
    28: And my tongue shall meditate thy justice, thy praise all the day long.

  Chapter 35.

    1: Unto the end, for the servant of God, David himself. 
    2: The unjust hath said within himself, that he would sin: there is no fear of God before his eyes. 
    3: For in his sight he hath done deceitfully, that his iniquity may be found unto hatred. 
    4: The words of his mouth are iniquity and guile: he would not understand that he might do well. 
    5: He hath devised iniquity on his bed, he hath set himself on every way that is not good: but evil he hath not hated.
    6: O Lord, thy mercy is in heaven, and thy truth reacheth, even to the clouds. 
    7: Thy justice is as the mountains of God, thy judgments are a great deep. Men and beasts thou wilt preserve, O Lord: 
    8: O how hast thou multiplied thy mercy, O God! But the children of men shall put their trust under the covert of thy wings. 
    9: They shall be inebriated with the plenty of thy house; and thou shalt make them drink of the torrent of thy pleasure. 
    10: For with thee is the fountain of life; and in thy light we shall see light.
    11: Extend thy mercy to them that know thee, and thy justice to them that are right in heart. 
    12: Let not the foot of pride come to me, and let not the hand of the sinner move me. 
    13: There the workers of iniquity are fallen, they are cast out, and could not stand.

  Chapter 36.

    1: A psalm for David himself. Be not emulous of evildoers; nor envy them that work iniquity. 
    2: For they shall shortly wither away as grass, and as the green herbs shall quickly fall. 
    3: Trust in the Lord, and do good, and dwell in the land, and thou shalt be fed with its riches. 
    4: Delight in the Lord, and he will give thee the requests of thy heart. 
    5: Commit thy way to the Lord, and trust in him, and he will do it.
    6: And he will bring forth thy justice as the light, and thy judgment as the noonday. 
    7: Be subject to the Lord and pray to him Envy not the man who prospereth in his way; the man who doth unjust things. 
    8: Cease from anger, and leave rage; have no emulation to do evil. 
    9: For the evildoers shall be cut off: but they that wait upon the Lord shall inherit the land. 
    10: For yet a little while, and the wicked shall not be: and thou shalt seek his place, and shalt not find it.
    11: But the meek shall inherit the land, and shall delight in abundance of peace. 
    12: The sinner shall watch the just man: and shall gnash upon him with his teeth. 
    13: But the Lord shall laugh at him: for he foreseeth that his day shall come. 
    14: The wicked have drawn out the sword: they have bent their bow. To cast down the poor and needy, to kill the upright of heart. 
    15: Let their sword enter into their own hearts, and let their bow be broken.
    16: Better is a little to the just, than the great riches of the wicked. 
    17: For the arms of the wicked shall be broken in pieces; but the Lord strengtheneth the just. 
    18: The Lord knoweth the days of undefiled; and their inheritance shall be for ever. 
    19: They shall not be confounded in the evil time; and in the days of famine they shall be filled: 
    20: Because the wicked shall perish. And the enemies of the Lord, presently after they shall be honoured and exalted, shall come to nothing and vanish like smoke.
    21: The sinner shall borrow, and not pay again; but the just sheweth mercy and shall give. 
    22: For such as bless him shall inherit the land: but such as curse him shall perish. 
    23: With the Lord shall the steps of a man be directed, and he shall like well his way. 
    24: When he shall fall he shall not be bruised, for the Lord putteth his hand under him. 
    25: I have been young, and now am old; and I have not seen the just forsaken, nor his seed seeking bread.
    26: He sheweth mercy, and lendeth all the day long; and his seed shall be in blessing. 
    27: Decline from evil and do good, and dwell for ever and ever. 
    28: For the Lord loveth judgment, and will not forsake his saints: they shall be preserved for ever. The unjust shall be punished, and the seed of the wicked shall perish. 
    29: But the just shall inherit the land, and shall dwell therein for evermore. 
    30: The mouth of the just shall meditate wisdom: and his tongue shall speak judgment.
    31: The law of his God is in his heart, and his steps shall not be supplanted. 
    32: The wicked watcheth the just man, and seeketh to put him to death, 
    33: But the Lord will not leave in his hands; nor condemn him when he shall be judged. 
    34: Expect the Lord and keep his way: and he will exalt thee to inherit the land: when the sinners shall perish thou shalt see. 
    35: I have seen the wicked highly exalted, and lifted up like the cedars of Libanus.
    36: And I passed by, and lo, he was not: and I sought him and his place was not found. 
    37: Keep innocence, and behold justice: for there are remnants for the peaceable man. 
    38: But the unjust shall be destroyed together: the remnants of the wicked shall perish. 
    39: But the salvation of the just is from the Lord, and he is their protector in the time of trouble. 
    40: And the Lord will help them and deliver them: and he will rescue them from the wicked, and save them, because they have hoped in him.

End of day 152.