Day 295:

Reading Luke, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: Forasmuch as many have taken in hand to set forth in order a narration of the things that have been accomplished among us; 
    2: According as they have delivered them unto us, who from the beginning were eyewitnesses and ministers of the word: 
    3: It seemed good to me also, having diligently attained to all things from the beginning, to write to thee in order, most excellent Theophilus, 
    4: That thou mayest know the verity of those words in which thou hast been instructed. 
    5: There was in the days of Herod, the king of Judea, a certain priest named Zachary, of the course of Abia; and his wife was of the daughters of Aaron, and her name Elizabeth.
    6: And they were both just before God, walking in all the commandments and justifications of the Lord without blame. 
    7: And they had no son, for that Elizabeth was barren, and they both were well advanced in years. 
    8: And it came to pass, when he executed the priestly function in the order of his course before God, 
    9: According to the custom of the priestly office, it was his lot to offer incense, going into the temple of the Lord. 
    10: And all the multitude of the people was praying without, at the hour of incense.
    11: And there appeared to him an angel of the Lord, standing on the right side of the altar of incense. 
    12: And Zachary seeing him, was troubled, and fear fell upon him. 
    13: But the angel said to him: Fear not, Zachary, for thy prayer is heard; and thy wife Elizabeth shall bear thee a son, and thou shalt call his name John: 
    14: And thou shalt have joy and gladness, and many shall rejoice in his nativity. 
    15: For he shall be great before the Lord; and shall drink no wine nor strong drink: and he shall be filled with the Holy Ghost, even from his mother's womb.
    16: And he shall convert many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God. 
    17: And he shall go before him in the spirit and power of Elias; that he may turn the hearts of the fathers unto the children, and the incredulous to the wisdom of the just, to prepare unto the Lord a perfect people. 
    18: And Zachary said to the angel: Whereby shall I know this? for I am an old man, and my wife is advanced in years. 
    19: And the angel answering, said to him: I am Gabriel, who stand before God: and am sent to speak to thee, and to bring thee these good tidings. 
    20: And behold, thou shalt be dumb, and shalt not be able to speak until the day wherein these things shall come to pass, because thou hast not believed my words, which shall be fulfilled in their time.
    21: And the people were waiting for Zachary; and they wondered that he tarried so long in the temple. 
    22: And when he came out, he could not speak to them: and they understood that he had seen a vision in the temple. And he made signs to them, and remained dumb. 
    23: And it came to pass, after the days of his office were accomplished, he departed to his own house. 
    24: And after those days, Elizabeth his wife conceived, and hid herself five months, saying: 
    25: Thus hath the Lord dealt with me in the days wherein he hath had regard to take away my reproach among men.
    26: And in the sixth month, the angel Gabriel was sent from God into a city of Galilee, called Nazareth, 
    27: To a virgin espoused to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David; and the virgin's name was Mary. 
    28: And the angel being come in, said unto her: Hail, full of grace, the Lord is with thee: blessed art thou among women. 
    29: Who having heard, was troubled at his saying, and thought with herself what manner of salutation this should be. 
    30: And the angel said to her: Fear not, Mary, for thou hast found grace with God.
    31: Behold thou shalt conceive in thy womb, and shalt bring forth a son; and thou shalt call his name Jesus. 
    32: He shall be great, and shall be called the Son of the most High; and the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of David his father; and he shall reign in the house of Jacob for ever. 
    33: And of his kingdom there shall be no end. 
    34: And Mary said to the angel: How shall this be done, because I know not man? 
    35: And the angel answering, said to her: The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the most High shall overshadow thee. And therefore also the Holy which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God.
    36: And behold thy cousin Elizabeth, she also hath conceived a son in her old age; and this is the sixth month with her that is called barren: 
    37: Because no word shall be impossible with God. 
    38: And Mary said: Behold the handmaid of the Lord; be it done to me according to thy word. And the angel departed from her. 
    39: And Mary rising up in those days, went into the hill country with haste into a city of Juda. 
    40: And she entered into the house of Zachary, and saluted Elizabeth.
    41: And it came to pass, that when Elizabeth heard the salutation of Mary, the infant leaped in her womb. And Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Ghost: 
    42: And she cried out with a loud voice, and said: Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb. 
    43: And whence is this to me, that the mother of my Lord should come to me? 
    44: For behold as soon as the voice of thy salutation sounded in my ears, the infant in my womb leaped for joy. 
    45: And blessed art thou that hast believed, because those things shall be accomplished that were spoken to thee by the Lord.
    46: And Mary said: My soul doth magnify the Lord. 
    47: And my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Saviour. 
    48: Because he hath regarded the humility of his handmaid; for behold from henceforth all generations shall call me blessed. 
    49: Because he that is mighty, hath done great things to me; and holy is his name. 
    50: And his mercy is from generation unto generations, to them that fear him.
    51: He hath shewed might in his arm: he hath scattered the proud in the conceit of their heart. 
    52: He hath put down the mighty from their seat, and hath exalted the humble. 
    53: He hath filled the hungry with good things; and the rich he hath sent empty away. 
    54: He hath received Israel his servant, being mindful of his mercy: 
    55: As he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham and to his seed for ever.
    56: And Mary abode with her about three months; and she returned to her own house. 
    57: Now Elizabeth's full time of being delivered was come, and she brought forth a son. 
    58: And her neighbours and kinsfolks heard that the Lord had shewed his great mercy towards her, and they congratulated with her. 
    59: And it came to pass, that on the eighth day they came to circumcise the child, and they called him by his father's name Zachary. 
    60: And his mother answering, said: Not so; but he shall be called John.
    61: And they said to her: There is none of thy kindred that is called by this name. 
    62: And they made signs to his father, how he would have him called. 
    63: And demanding a writing table, he wrote, saying: John is his name. And they all wondered. 
    64: And immediately his mouth was opened, and his tongue loosed, and he spoke, blessing God. 
    65: And fear came upon all their neighbours; and all these things were noised abroad over all the hill country of Judea.
    66: And all they that had heard them laid them up in their heart, saying: What an one, think ye, shall this child be? For the hand of the Lord was with him. 
    67: And Zachary his father was filled with the Holy Ghost; and he prophesied, saying: 
    68: Blessed be the Lord God of Israel; because he hath visited and wrought the redemption of his people: 
    69: And hath raised up an horn of salvation to us, in the house of David his servant: 
    70: As he spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets, who are from the beginning:
    71: Salvation from our enemies, and from the hand of all that hate us: 
    72: To perform mercy to our fathers, and to remember his holy testament, 
    73: The oath, which he swore to Abraham our father, that he would grant to us, 
    74: That being delivered from the hand of our enemies, we may serve him without fear, 
    75: In holiness and justice before him, all our days.
    76: And thou, child, shalt be called the prophet of the Highest: for thou shalt go before the face of the Lord to prepare his ways: 
    77: To give knowledge of salvation to his people, unto the remission of their sins: 
    78: Through the bowels of the mercy of our God, in which the Orient from on high hath visited us: 
    79: To enlighten them that sit in darkness, and in the shadow of death: to direct our feet into the way of peace. 
    80: And the child grew, and was strengthened in spirit; and was in the deserts until the day of his manifestation to Israel.

  Chapter 2.

    1: And it came to pass, that in those days there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus, that the whole world should be enrolled. 
    2: This enrolling was first made by Cyrinus, the governor of Syria. 
    3: And all went to be enrolled, every one into his own city. 
    4: And Joseph also went up from Galilee, out of the city of Nazareth into Judea, to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem: because he was of the house and family of David, 
    5: To be enrolled with Mary his espoused wife, who was with child.
    6: And it came to pass, that when they were there, her days were accomplished, that she should be delivered. 
    7: And she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him up in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger; because there was no room for them in the inn. 
    8: And there were in the same country shepherds watching, and keeping the night watches over their flock. 
    9: And behold an angel of the Lord stood by them, and the brightness of God shone round about them; and they feared with a great fear. 
    10: And the angel said to them: Fear not; for, behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, that shall be to all the people:
    11: For, this day, is born to you a Saviour, who is Christ the Lord, in the city of David. 
    12: And this shall be a sign unto you. You shall find the infant wrapped in swaddling clothes, and laid in a manger. 
    13: And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly army, praising God, and saying: 
    14: Glory to God in the highest; and on earth peace to men of good will. 
    15: And it came to pass, after the angels departed from them into heaven, the shepherds said one to another: Let us go over to Bethlehem, and let us see this word that is come to pass, which the Lord hath shewed to us.
    16: And they came with haste; and they found Mary and Joseph, and the infant lying in the manger. 
    17: And seeing, they understood of the word that had been spoken to them concerning this child. 
    18: And all that heard, wondered; and at those things that were told them by the shepherds. 
    19: But Mary kept all these words, pondering them in her heart. 
    20: And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God, for all the things they had heard and seen, as it was told unto them.
    21: And after eight days were accomplished, that the child should be circumcised, his name was called JESUS, which was called by the angel, before he was conceived in the womb. 
    22: And after the days of her purification, according to the law of Moses, were accomplished, they carried him to Jerusalem, to present him to the Lord: 
    23: As it is written in the law of the Lord: Every male opening the womb shall be called holy to the Lord: 
    24: And to offer a sacrifice, according as it is written in the law of the Lord, a pair of turtledoves, or two young pigeons: 
    25: And behold there was a man in Jerusalem named Simeon, and this man was just and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel; and the Holy Ghost was in him.
    26: And he had received an answer from the Holy Ghost, that he should not see death, before he had seen the Christ of the Lord. 
    27: And he came by the Spirit into the temple. And when his parents brought in the child Jesus, to do for him according to the custom of the law, 
    28: He also took him into his arms, and blessed God, and said: 
    29: Now thou dost dismiss thy servant, O Lord, according to thy word in peace; 
    30: Because my eyes have seen thy salvation,
    31: Which thou hast prepared before the face of all peoples: 
    32: A light to the revelation of the Gentiles, and the glory of thy people Israel. 
    33: And his father and mother were wondering at those things which were spoken concerning him. 
    34: And Simeon blessed them, and said to Mary his mother: Behold this child is set for the fall, and for the resurrection of many in Israel, and for a sign which shall be contradicted; 
    35: And thy own soul a sword shall pierce, that, out of many hearts, thoughts may be revealed.
    36: And there was one Anna, a prophetess, the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Aser; she was far advanced in years, and had lived with her husband seven years from her virginity. 
    37: And she was a widow until fourscore and four years; who departed not from the temple, by fastings and prayers serving night and day. 
    38: Now she, at the same hour, coming in, confessed to the Lord; and spoke of him to all that looked for the redemption of Israel. 
    39: And after they had performed all things according to the law of the Lord, they returned into Galilee, to their city Nazareth. 
    40: And the child grew, and waxed strong, full of wisdom; and the grace of God was in him.
    41: And his parents went every year to Jerusalem, at the solemn day of the pasch, 
    42: And when he was twelve years old, they going up into Jerusalem, according to the custom of the feast, 
    43: And having fulfilled the days, when they returned, the child Jesus remained in Jerusalem; and his parents knew it not. 
    44: And thinking that he was in the company, they came a day's journey, and sought him among their kinsfolks and acquaintance. 
    45: And not finding him, they returned into Jerusalem, seeking him.
    46: And it came to pass, that, after three days, they found him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the doctors, hearing them, and asking them questions. 
    47: And all that heard him were astonished at his wisdom and his answers. 
    48: And seeing him, they wondered. And his mother said to him: Son, why hast thou done so to us? behold thy father and I have sought thee sorrowing. 
    49: And he said to them: How is it that you sought me? did you not know, that I must be about my father's business? 
    50: And they understood not the word that he spoke unto them.
    51: And he went down with them, and came to Nazareth, and was subject to them. And his mother kept all these words in her heart. 
    52: And Jesus advanced in wisdom, and age, and grace with God and men.

  Chapter 3.

    1: Now in the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, Pontius Pilate being governor of Judea, and Herod being tetrarch of Galilee, and Philip his brother tetrarch of Iturea, and the country of Trachonitis, and Lysanias tetrarch of Abilina; 
    2: Under the high priests Annas and Caiphas; the word of the Lord was made unto John, the son of Zachary, in the desert. 
    3: And he came into all the country about the Jordan, preaching the baptism of penance for the remission of sins; 
    4: As it was written in the book of the sayings of Isaias the prophet: A voice of one crying in the wilderness: Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make straight his paths. 
    5: Every valley shall be filled; and every mountain and hill shall be brought low; and the crooked shall be made straight; and the rough ways plain;
    6: And all flesh shall see the salvation of God. 
    7: He said therefore to the multitudes that went forth to be baptized by him: Ye offspring of vipers, who hath shewed you to flee from the wrath to come? 
    8: Bring forth therefore fruits worthy of penance; and do not begin to say, We have Abraham for our father. For I say unto you, that God is able of these stones to raise up children to Abraham. 
    9: For now the axe is laid to the root of the trees. Every tree therefore that bringeth not forth good fruit, shall be cut down and cast into the fire. 
    10: And the people asked him, saying: What then shall we do?
    11: And he answering, said to them: He that hath two coats, let him give to him that hath none; and he that hath meat, let him do in like manner. 
    12: And the publicans also came to be baptized, and said to him: Master, what shall we do? 
    13: But he said to them: Do nothing more than that which is appointed you. 
    14: And the soldiers also asked him, saying: And what shall we do? And he said to them: Do violence to no man; neither calumniate any man; and be content with your pay. 
    15: And as the people were of opinion, and all were thinking in their hearts of John, that perhaps he might be the Christ;
    16: John answered, saying unto all: I indeed baptize you with water; but there shall come one mightier than I, the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to loose: he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost, and with fire: 
    17: Whose fan is in his hand, and he will purge his floor, and will gather the wheat into his barn; but the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire. 
    18: And many other things exhorting, did he preach to the people. 
    19: But Herod the tetrarch, when he was reproved by him for Herodias, his brother's wife, and for all the evils which Herod had done; 
    20: He added this also above all, and shut up John in prison.
    21: Now it came to pass, when all the people were baptized, that Jesus also being baptized and praying, heaven was opened; 
    22: And the Holy Ghost descended in a bodily shape, as a dove upon him; and a voice came from heaven: Thou art my beloved Son; in thee I am well pleased. 
    23: And Jesus himself was beginning about the age of thirty years; being (as it was supposed) the son of Joseph, who was of Heli, who was of Mathat, 
    24: Who was of Levi, who was of Melchi, who was of Janne, who was of Joseph, 
    25: Who was of Mathathias, who was of Amos, who was of Nahum, who was of Hesli, who was of Nagge,
    26: Who was of Mahath, who was of Mathathias, who was of Semei, who was of Joseph, who was of Juda, 
    27: Who was of Joanna, who was of Reza, who was of Zorobabel, who was of Salathiel, who was of Neri, 
    28: Who was of Melchi, who was of Addi, who was of Cosan, who was of Helmadan, who was of Her, 
    29: Who was of Jesus, who was of Eliezer, who was of Jorim, who was of Mathat, who was of Levi, 
    30: Who was of Simeon, who was of Judas, who was of Joseph, who was of Jona, who was of Eliakim,
    31: Who was of Melea, who was of Menna, who was of Mathatha, who was of Nathan, who was of David, 
    32: Who was of Jesse, who was of Obed, who was of Booz, who was of Salmon, who was of Naasson, 
    33: Who was of Aminadab, who was of Aram, who was of Esron, who was of Phares, who was of Judas, 
    34: Who was of Jacob, who was of Isaac, who was of Abraham, who was of Thare, who was of Nachor, 
    35: Who was of Sarug, who was of Ragau, who was of Phaleg, who was of Heber, who was of Sale,
    36: Who was of Cainan, who was of Arphaxad, who was of Sem, who was of Noe, who was of Lamech, 
    37: Who was of Mathusale, who was of Henoch, who was of Jared, who was of Malaleel, who was of Cainan, 
    38: Who was of Henos, who was of Seth, who was of Adam, who was of God.

  Chapter 4.

    1: And Jesus being full of the Holy Ghost, returned from the Jordan, and was led by the Spirit into the desert, 
    2: For the space of forty days; and was tempted by the devil. And he ate nothing in those days; and when they were ended, he was hungry. 
    3: And the devil said to him: If thou be the Son of God, say to this stone that it be made bread. 
    4: And Jesus answered him: It is written, that Man liveth not by bread alone, but by every word of God. 
    5: And the devil led him into a high mountain, and shewed him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time;
    6: And he said to him: To thee will I give all this power, and the glory of them; for to me they are delivered, and to whom I will, I give them. 
    7: If thou therefore wilt adore before me, all shall be thine. 
    8: And Jesus answering said to him: It is written: Thou shalt adore the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve. 
    9: And he brought him to Jerusalem, and set him on a pinnacle of the temple, and he said to him: If thou be the Son of God, cast thyself from hence. 
    10: For it is written, that He hath given his angels charge over thee, that they keep thee.
    11: And that in their hands they shall bear thee up, lest perhaps thou dash thy foot against a stone. 
    12: And Jesus answering, said to him: It is said: Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God. 
    13: And all the temptation being ended, the devil departed from him for a time. 
    14: And Jesus returned in the power of the spirit, into Galilee, and the fame of him went out through the whole country. 
    15: And he taught in their synagogues, and was magnified by all.
    16: And he came to Nazareth, where he was brought up: and he went into the synagogue, according to his custom, on the sabbath day; and he rose up to read. 
    17: And the book of Isaias the prophet was delivered unto him. And as he unfolded the book, he found the place where it was written: 
    18: The Spirit of the Lord is upon me. Wherefore he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor, he hath sent me to heal the contrite of heart, 
    19: To preach deliverance to the captives, and sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised, to preach the acceptable year of the Lord, and the day of reward. 
    20: And when he had folded the book, he restored it to the minister, and sat down. And the eyes of all in the synagogue were fixed on him.
    21: And he began to say to them: This day is fulfilled this scripture in your ears. 
    22: And all gave testimony to him: and they wondered at the words of grace that proceeded from his mouth, and they said: Is not this the son of Joseph? 
    23: And he said to them: Doubtless you will say to me this similitude: Physician, heal thyself: as great things as we have heard done in Capharnaum, do also here in thy own country. 
    24: And he said: Amen I say to you, that no prophet is accepted in his own country. 
    25: In truth I say to you, there were many widows in the days of Elias in Israel, when heaven was shut up three years and six months, when there was a great famine throughout all the earth.
    26: And to none of them was Elias sent, but to Sarepta of Sidon, to a widow woman. 
    27: And there were many lepers in Israel in the time of Eliseus the prophet: and none of them was cleansed but Naaman the Syrian. 
    28: And all they in the synagogue, hearing these things, were filled with anger. 
    29: And they rose up and thrust him out of the city; and they brought him to the brow of the hill, whereon their city was built, that they might cast him down headlong. 
    30: But he passing through the midst of them, went his way.
    31: And he went down into Capharnaum, a city of Galilee, and there he taught them on the sabbath days. 
    32: And they were astonished at his doctrine: for his speech was with power. 
    33: And in the synagogue there was a man who had an unclean devil, and he cried out with a loud voice, 
    34: Saying: Let us alone, what have we to do with thee, Jesus of Nazareth? art thou come to destroy us? I know thee who thou art, the holy one of God. 
    35: And Jesus rebuked him, saying: Hold thy peace, and go out of him. And when the devil had thrown him into the midst, he went out of him, and hurt him not at all.
    36: And there came fear upon all, and they talked among themselves, saying: What word is this, for with authority and power he commandeth the unclean spirits, and they go out? 
    37: And the fame of him was published into every place of the country. 
    38: And Jesus rising up out of the synagogue, went into Simon's house. And Simon's wife's mother was taken with a great fever, and they besought him for her. 
    39: And standing over her, he commanded the fever, and it left her. And immediately rising, she ministered to them. 
    40: And when the sun was down, all they that had any sick with divers diseases, brought them to him. But he laying his hands on every one of them, healed them.
    41: And devils went out from many, crying out and saying: Thou art the Son of God. And rebuking them he suffered them not to speak, for they knew that he was Christ. 
    42: And when it was day, going out he went into a desert place, and the multitudes sought him, and came unto him: and they stayed him that he should not depart from them. 
    43: To whom he said: To other cities also I must preach the kingdom of God: for therefore am I sent. 
    44: And he was preaching in the synagogues of Galilee.

End of day 295.