Day 342:

Reading Hebrews, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: The former indeed had also justifications of divine service, and a worldly sanctuary. 
    2: For there was a tabernacle made the first, wherein were the candlesticks, and the table, and the setting forth of loaves, which is called the holy. 
    3: And after the second veil, the tabernacle, which is called the holy of holies: 
    4: Having a golden censer, and the ark of the testament covered about on every part with gold, in which was a golden pot that had manna, and the rod of Aaron, that had blossomed, and the tables of the testament. 
    5: And over it were the cherubims of glory overshadowing the propitiatory: of which it is not needful to speak now particularly.
    6: Now these things being thus ordered, into the first tabernacle the priests indeed always entered, accomplishing the offices of sacrifices. 
    7: But into the second, the high priest alone, once a year: not without blood, which he offereth for his own, and the people's ignorance: 
    8: The Holy Ghost signifying this, that the way into the holies was not yet made manifest, whilst the former tabernacle was yet standing. 
    9: Which is a parable of the time present: according to which gifts and sacrifices are offered, which can not, as to the conscience, make him perfect that serveth, only in meats and in drinks, 
    10: And divers washings, and justices of the flesh laid on them until the time of correction.
    11: But Christ, being come an high priest of the good things to come, by a greater and more perfect tabernacle not made with hand, that is, not of this creation: 
    12: Neither by the blood of goats, or of calves, but by his own blood, entered once into the holies, having obtained eternal redemption. 
    13: For if the blood of goats and of oxen, and the ashes of an heifer being sprinkled, sanctify such as are defiled, to the cleansing of the flesh: 
    14: How much more shall the blood of Christ, who by the Holy Ghost offered himself unspotted unto God, cleanse our conscience from dead works, to serve the living God? 
    15: And therefore he is the mediator of the new testament: that by means of his death, for the redemption of those transgressions, which were under the former testament, they that are called may receive the promise of eternal inheritance.
    16: For where there is a testament, the death of the testator must of necessity come in. 
    17: For a testament is of force, after men are dead: otherwise it is as yet of no strength, whilst the testator liveth. 
    18: Whereupon neither was the first indeed dedicated without blood. 
    19: For when every commandment of the law had been read by Moses to all the people, he took the blood of calves and goats, with water, and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book itself and all the people, 
    20: Saying: This is the blood of the testament, which God hath enjoined unto you.
    21: The tabernacle also and all the vessels of the ministry, in like manner, he sprinkled with blood. 
    22: And almost all things, according to the law, are cleansed with blood: and without shedding of blood there is no remission. 
    23: It is necessary therefore that the patterns of heavenly things should be cleansed with these: but the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these. 
    24: For Jesus is not entered into the holies made with hands, the patterns of the true: but into heaven itself, that he may appear now in the presence of God for us. 
    25: Nor yet that he should offer himself often, as the high priest entereth into the holies, every year with the blood of others:
    26: For then he ought to have suffered often from the beginning of the world: but now once at the end of ages, he hath appeared for the destruction of sin, by the sacrifice of himself. 
    27: And as it is appointed unto men once to die, and after this the judgment: 
    28: So also Christ was offered once to exhaust the sins of many; the second time he shall appear without sin to them that expect him unto salvation.

  Chapter 10.

    1: For the law having a shadow of the good things to come, not the very image of the things; by the selfsame sacrifices which they offer continually every year, can never make the comers thereunto perfect: 
    2: For then they would have ceased to be offered: because the worshippers once cleansed should have no conscience of sin any longer: 
    3: But in them there is made a commemoration of sins every year. 
    4: For it is impossible that with the blood of oxen and goats sin should be taken away. 
    5: Wherefore when he cometh into the world, he saith: Sacrifice and oblation thou wouldest not: but a body thou hast fitted to me:
    6: Holocausts for sin did not please thee. 
    7: Then said I: Behold I come: in the head of the book it is written of me: that I should do thy will, O God. 
    8: In saying before, Sacrifices, and oblations, and holocausts for sin thou wouldest not, neither are they pleasing to thee, which are offered according to the law. 
    9: Then said I: Behold, I come to do thy will, O God: he taketh away the first, that he may establish that which followeth. 
    10: In the which will, we are sanctified by the oblation of the body of Jesus Christ once.
    11: And every priest indeed standeth daily ministering, and often offering the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins. 
    12: But this man offering one sacrifice for sins, for ever sitteth on the right hand of God, 
    13: From henceforth expecting, until his enemies be made his footstool. 
    14: For by one oblation he hath perfected for ever them that are sanctified. 
    15: And the Holy Ghost also doth testify this to us. For after that he said:
    16: And this is the testament which I will make unto them after those days, saith the Lord. I will give my laws in their hearts, and on their minds will I write them: 
    17: And their sins and iniquities I will remember no more. 
    18: Now where there is a remission of these, there is no more an oblation for sin. 
    19: Having therefore, brethren, a confidence in the entering into the holies by the blood of Christ; 
    20: A new and living way which he hath dedicated for us through the veil, that is to say, his flesh,
    21: And a high priest over the house of God: 
    22: Let us draw near with a true heart in fulness of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with clean water. 
    23: Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering (for he is faithful that hath promised), 
    24: And let us consider one another, to provoke unto charity and to good works: 
    25: Not forsaking our assembly, as some are accustomed; but comforting one another, and so much the more as you see the day approaching.
    26: For if we sin wilfully after having the knowledge of the truth, there is now left no sacrifice for sins, 
    27: But a certain dreadful expectation of judgment, and the rage of a fire which shall consume the adversaries. 
    28: A man making void the law of Moses, dieth without any mercy under two or three witnesses: 
    29: How much more, do you think he deserveth worse punishments, who hath trodden under foot the Son of God, and hath esteemed the blood of the testament unclean, by which he was sanctified, and hath offered an affront to the Spirit of grace? 
    30: For we know him that hath said: Vengeance belongeth to me, and I will repay. And again: The Lord shall judge his people.
    31: It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. 
    32: But call to mind the former days, wherein, being illuminated, you endured a great fight of afflictions. 
    33: And on the one hand indeed, by reproaches and tribulations, were made a gazingstock; and on the other, became companions of them that were used in such sort. 
    34: For you both had compassion on them that were in bands, and took with joy the being stripped of your own goods, knowing that you have a better and a lasting substance. 
    35: Do not therefore lose your confidence, which hath a great reward.
    36: For patience is necessary for you; that, doing the will of God, you may receive the promise. 
    37: For yet a little and a very little while, and he that is to come, will come, and will not delay. 
    38: But my just man liveth by faith; but if he withdraw himself, he shall not please my soul. 
    39: But we are not the children of withdrawing unto perdition, but of faith to the saving of the soul.

  Chapter 11.

    1: Now faith is the substance of things to be hoped for, the evidence of things that appear not. 
    2: For by this the ancients obtained a testimony. 
    3: By faith we understand that the world was framed by the word of God; that from invisible things visible things might be made. 
    4: By faith Abel offered to God a sacrifice exceeding that of Cain, by which he obtained a testimony that he was just, God giving testimony to his gifts; and by it he being dead yet speaketh. 
    5: By faith Henoch was translated, that he should not see death; and he was not found, because God had translated him: for before his translation he had testimony that he pleased God.
    6: But without faith it is impossible to please God. For he that cometh to God, must believe that he is, and is a rewarder to them that seek him. 
    7: By faith Noe, having received an answer concerning those things which as yet were not seen, moved with fear, framed the ark for the saving of his house, by the which he condemned the world; and was instituted heir of the justice which is by faith. 
    8: By faith he that is called Abraham, obeyed to go out into a place which he was to receive for an inheritance; and he went out, not knowing whither he went. 
    9: By faith he abode in the land, dwelling in cottages, with Isaac and Jacob, the co-heirs of the same promise. 
    10: For he looked for a city that hath foundations; whose builder and maker is God.
    11: By faith also Sara herself, being barren, received strength to conceive seed, even past the time of age; because she believed that he was faithful who had promised, 
    12: For which cause there sprung even from one (and him as good as dead) as the stars of heaven in multitude, and as the sand which is by the sea shore innumerable. 
    13: All these died according to faith, not having received the promises, but beholding them afar off, and saluting them, and confessing that they are pilgrims and strangers on the earth. 
    14: For they that say these things, do signify that they seek a country. 
    15: And truly if they had been mindful of that from whence they came out, they had doubtless time to return.
    16: But now they desire a better, that is to say, a heavenly country. Therefore God is not ashamed to be called their God; for he hath prepared for them a city. 
    17: By faith Abraham, when he was tried, offered Isaac: and he that had received the promises, offered up his only begotten son; 
    18: (To whom it was said: In Isaac shall thy seed be called.) 
    19: Accounting that God is able to raise up even from the dead. Whereupon also he received him for a parable. 
    20: By faith also of things to come, Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau.
    21: By faith Jacob dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph, and adored the top of his rod. 
    22: By faith Joseph, when he was dying, made mention of the going out of the children of Israel; and gave commandment concerning his bones. 
    23: By faith Moses, when he was born, was hid three months by his parents; because they saw he was a comely babe, and they feared not the king's edict. 
    24: By faith Moses, when he was grown up, denied himself to be the son of Pharao's daughter; 
    25: Rather choosing to be afflicted with the people of God, than to have the pleasure of sin for a time,
    26: Esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasure of the Egyptians. For he looked unto the reward. 
    27: By faith he left Egypt, not fearing the fierceness of the king: for he endured as seeing him that is invisible. 
    28: By faith he celebrated the pasch, and the shedding of the blood; that he, who destroyed the firstborn, might not touch them. 
    29: By faith they passed through the Red Sea, as by dry land: which the Egyptians attempting, were swallowed up. 
    30: By faith the walls of Jericho fell down, by the going round them seven days.
    31: By faith Rahab the harlot perished not with the unbelievers, receiving the spies with peace. 
    32: And what shall I yet say? For the time would fail me to tell of Gedeon, Barac, Samson, Jephthe, David, Samuel, and the prophets: 
    33: Who by faith conquered kingdoms, wrought justice, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions, 
    34: Quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, recovered strength from weakness, became valiant in battle, put to flight the armies of foreigners: 
    35: Women received their dead raised to life again. But others were racked, not accepting deliverance, that they might find a better resurrection.
    36: And others had trial of mockeries and stripes, moreover also of bands and prisons. 
    37: They were stoned, they were cut asunder, they were tempted, they were put to death by the sword, they wandered about in sheepskins, in goatskins, being in want, distressed, afflicted: 
    38: Of whom the world was not worthy; wandering in deserts, in mountains, and in dens, and in caves of the earth. 
    39: And all these being approved by the testimony of faith, received not the promise; 
    40: God providing some better thing for us, that they should not be perfected without us.

  Chapter 12.

    1: And therefore we also having so great a cloud of witnesses over our head, laying aside every weight and sin which surrounds us, let us run by patience to the fight proposed to us: 
    2: Looking on Jesus, the author and finisher of faith, who having joy set before him, endured the cross, despising the shame, and now sitteth on the right hand of the throne of God. 
    3: For think diligently upon him that endured such opposition from sinners against himself; that you be not wearied, fainting in your minds. 
    4: For you have not yet resisted unto blood, striving against sin: 
    5: And you have forgotten the consolation, which speaketh to you, as unto children, saying: My son, neglect not the discipline of the Lord; neither be thou wearied whilst thou art rebuked by him.
    6: For whom the Lord loveth, he chastiseth; and he scourgeth every son whom he receiveth. 
    7: Persevere under discipline. God dealeth with you as with his sons; for what son is there, whom the father doth not correct? 
    8: But if you be without chastisement, whereof all are made partakers, then are you bastards, and not sons. 
    9: Moreover we have had fathers of our flesh, for instructors, and we reverenced them: shall we not much more obey the Father of spirits, and live? 
    10: And they indeed for a few days, according to their own pleasure, instructed us: but he, for our profit, that we might receive his sanctification.
    11: Now all chastisement for the present indeed seemeth not to bring with it joy, but sorrow: but afterwards it will yield, to them that are exercised by it, the most peaceable fruit of justice. 
    12: Wherefore lift up the hands which hang down, and the feeble knees, 
    13: And make straight steps with your feet: that no one, halting, may go out of the way; but rather be healed. 
    14: Follow peace with all men, and holiness: without which no man shall see God. 
    15: Looking diligently, lest any man be wanting to the grace of God; lest any root of bitterness springing up do hinder, and by it many be defiled.
    16: Lest there be any fornicator, or profane person, as Esau; who for one mess, sold his first birthright. 
    17: For know ye that afterwards, when he desired to inherit the benediction, he was rejected; for he found no place of repentance, although with tears he had sought it. 
    18: For you are not come to a mountain that might be touched, and a burning fire, and a whirlwind, and darkness, and storm, 
    19: And the sound of a trumpet, and the voice of words, which they that heard excused themselves, that the word might not be spoken to them: 
    20: For they did not endure that which was said: And if so much as a beast shall touch the mount, it shall be stoned.
    21: And so terrible was that which was seen, Moses said: I am frighted, and tremble. 
    22: But you are come to mount Sion, and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to the company of many thousands of angels, 
    23: And to the church of the firstborn, who are written in the heavens, and to God the judge of all, and to the spirits of the just made perfect, 
    24: And to Jesus the mediator of the new testament, and to the sprinkling of blood which speaketh better than that of Abel. 
    25: See that you refuse him not that speaketh. For if they escaped not who refused him that spoke upon the earth, much more shall not we, that turn away from him that speaketh to us from heaven.
    26: Whose voice then moved the earth; but now he promiseth, saying: Yet once more, and I will move not only the earth, but heaven also. 
    27: And in that he saith, Yet once more, he signifieth the translation of the moveable things as made, that those things may remain which are immoveable. 
    28: Therefore receiving an immoveable kingdom, we have grace; whereby let us serve, pleasing God, with fear and reverence. 
    29: For our God is a consuming fire.

End of day 342.