Day 3:

Reading Genesis, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: And God blessed Noe and his sons. And he said to them: Increase and multiply, and fill the earth. 
    2: And let the fear and dread of you be upon all the beasts of the earth, and upon all the fowls of the air, and all that move upon the earth: all the fishes of the sea are delivered into your hand. 
    3: And every thing that moveth and liveth shall be meat for you: even as the green herbs have I delivered them all to you: 
    4: Saving that flesh with blood you shall not eat. 
    5: For I will require the blood of your lives at the hand of every beast, and at the hand of man, at the hand of every man, and of his brother, will I require the life of man.
    6: Whosoever shall shed man's blood, his blood shall be shed: for man was made to the image of God. 
    7: But increase you and multiply, and go upon the earth, and fill it. 
    8: Thus also said God to Noe, and to his sons with him, 
    9: Behold I will establish my covenant with you, and with your seed after you: 
    10: And with every living soul that is with you, as well in all birds as in cattle and beasts of the earth, that are come forth out of the ark, and in all the beasts of the earth.
    11: I will establish my covenant with you, and all flesh shall be no more destroyed with the waters of a flood, neither shall there be from henceforth a flood to waste the earth. 
    12: And God said: This is the sign of the covenant which I give between me and you, and to every living soul that is with you, for perpetual generations. 
    13: I will set my bow in the clouds, and it shall be the sign of a covenant between me, and between the earth. 
    14: And when I shall cover the sky with clouds, my bow shall appear in the clouds: 
    15: And I will remember my covenant with you, and with every living soul that beareth flesh: and there shall no more be waters of a flood to destroy all flesh.
    16: And the bow shall be in the clouds, and I shall see it, and shall remember the everlasting covenant, that was made between God and every living soul of all flesh which is upon the earth. 
    17: And God said to Noe: This shall be the sign of the covenant which I have established between me and all flesh upon the earth. 
    18: And the sons of Noe who came out of the ark, were Sem, Cham, and Japheth: and Cham is the father of Chanaan. 
    19: These three are the sons of Noe: and from these was all mankind spread over the whole earth. 
    20: And Noe, a husbandman, began to till the ground, and planted a vineyard.
    21: And drinking of the wine was made drunk, and was uncovered in his tent. 
    22: Which when Cham the father of Chanaan had seen, to wit, that his father's nakedness was uncovered, he told it to his two brethren without. 
    23: But Sem and Japheth put a cloak upon their shoulders, and going backward, covered the nakedness of their father: and their faces were turned away, and they saw not their father's nakedness. 
    24: And Noe awaking from the wine, when he had learned what his younger son had done to him, 
    25: He said: Cursed be Chanaan, a servant of servants shall he be unto his brethren.
    26: And he said: Blessed be the Lord God of Sem, be Chanaan his servant. 
    27: May God enlarge Japheth, and may he dwell in the tents of Sem, and Chanaan be his servant. 
    28: And Noe lived after the flood three hundred and fifty years: 
    29: And all his days were in the whole nine hundred and fifty years: and he died.

  Chapter 10.

    1: These are the generations of the sons of Noe: Sem, Cham, and Japheth: and unto them sons were born after the flood. 
    2: The sons of Japheth: Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Thubal, and Mosoch, and Thiras. 
    3: And the sons of Gomer: Ascenez and Riphath and Thogorma. 
    4: And the sons of Javan: Elisa and Tharsis, Cetthim and Dodanim. 
    5: By these were divided the islands of the Gentiles in their lands, every one according to his tongue and their families in their nations.
    6: And the sons of Cham: Chus, and Mesram, and Phuth, and Chanaan. 
    7: And the sons of Chus: Saba, and Hevila, and Sabatha, and Regma, and Sabatacha. The sons of Regma: Saba and Dadan. 
    8: Now Chus begot Nemrod: he began to be mighty on the earth. 
    9: And he was a stout hunter before the Lord. Hence came a proverb: Even as Nemrod the stout hunter before the Lord. 
    10: And the beginning of his kingdom was Babylon, and Arach, and Achad, and Chalanne in the land of Sennaar.
    11: Out of that land came forth Assur, and built Ninive, and the streets of the city, and Chale. 
    12: Resen also between Ninive and Chale: this is the great city. 
    13: And Mesraim begot Ludim, and Anamim, and Laabim, Nepthuim, 
    14: And Phetrusim, and Chasluim; of whom came forth the Philistines, and the Capthorim. 
    15: And Chanaan begot Sidon, his firstborn, the Hethite,
    16: And the Jebusite, and the Amorrhite, and the Gergesite, 
    17: The Hevite and the Aracite: the Sinite, 
    18: And the Aradian, the Samarite, and the Hamathite: and afterwards the families of the Chanaanites were spread abroad. 
    19: And the limits of Chanaan were from Sidon as one comes to Gerara even to Gaza, until thou enter Sodom and Gomorrha, and Adama, and Seboim even to Lesa. 
    20: These are the children of Cham in their kindreds, and tongues, and generations, and lands, and nations.
    21: Of Sem also, the father of all the children of Heber, the elder brother of Japheth, sons were born. 
    22: The sons of Sem: Elam and Assur, and Arphaxad, and Lud, and Aram. 
    23: The sons of Aram: Us and Hull, and Gether, and Mess. 
    24: But Arphaxad begot Sale, of whom was born Heber. 
    25: And to Heber were born two sons: the name of the one was Phaleg, because in his days the earth was divided: and his brother's name Jectan.
    26: Which Jectan begot Elmodad, and Saleph, and Asarmoth, Jare, 
    27: And Aduram, and Uzal, and Decla, 
    28: And Ebal, and Abimael, Saba, 
    29: And Ophir, and Hevila, and Jobab. All these were the sons of Jectan. 
    30: And their dwelling was from Messa as we go on as far as Sephar, a mountain in the east.
    31: These are the children of Sem according to their kindreds and tongues, and countries in their nations. 
    32: These are the families of Noe, according to their peoples and nations. By these were the nations divided on the earth after the flood.

  Chapter 11.

    1: And the earth was of one tongue, and of the same speech. 
    2: And when they removed from the east, they found a plain in the land of Sennaar, and dwelt in it. 
    3: And each one said to his neighbour: Come, let us make brick, and bake them with fire. And they had brick instead of stones, and slime instead of mortar. 
    4: And they said: Come, let us make a city and a tower, the top whereof may reach to heaven: and let us make our name famous before we be scattered abroad into all lands. 
    5: And the Lord came down to see the city and the tower, which the children of Adam were building.
    6: And he said: Behold, it is one people, and all have one tongue: and they have begun to do this, neither will they leave off from their designs, till they accomplish them in deed. 
    7: Come ye, therefore, let us go down, and there confound their tongue, that they may not understand one another's speech. 
    8: And so the Lord scattered them from that place into all lands, and they ceased to build the city. 
    9: And therefore the name thereof was called Babel, because there the language of the whole earth was confounded: and from thence the Lord scattered them abroad upon the face of all countries. 
    10: These are the generations of Sem: Sem was a hundred years old when he begot Arphaxad, two years after the flood.
    11: And Sem lived after he begot Arphaxad, five hundred years, and begot sons and daughters. 
    12: And Arphaxad lived thirty-five years, and begot Sale. 
    13: And Arphaxad lived after he begot Sale, three hundred and three years; and begot sons and daughters. 
    14: Sale also lived thirty years, and begot Heber. 
    15: And Sale lived after he begot Heber, four hundred and three years; and begot sons and daughters.
    16: And Heber lived thirty-four years, and begot Phaleg. 
    17: And Heber lived after he begot Phaleg, four hundred and thirty years: and begot sons and daughters. 
    18: Phaleg also lived thirty years, and begot Reu. 
    19: And Phaleg lived after he begot Reu, two hundred and nine years, and begot sons and daughters. 
    20: And Reu lived thirty-two years, and begot Sarug.
    21: And Reu lived after he begot Sarug, two hundred and seven years, and begot sons and daughters. 
    22: And Sarug lived thirty years, and begot Nachor. 
    23: And Sarug lived after he begot Nachor, two hundred years: and begot sons and daughters. 
    24: And Nachor lived nine and twenty years, and begot Thare. 
    25: And Nachor lived after he begot Thare, a hundred and nineteen years: and begot sons and daughters.
    26: And Thare lived seventy years, and begot Abram, and Nachor, and Aran. 
    27: And these are the generations of Thare: Thare begot Abram, Nachor, and Aran. And Aran begot Lot. 
    28: And Aran died before Thare his father, in the land of his nativity in Ur of the Chaldees. 
    29: And Abram and Nachor married wives: the name of Abram's wife was Sarai: and the name of Nachor's wife, Melcha, the daughter of Aran, father of Melcha, and father of Jescha. 
    30: And Sarai was barren, and had no children.
    31: And Thare took Abram, his son, and Lot the son of Aran, his son's son, and Sarai his daughter in law, the wife of Abram his son, and brought them out of Ur of the Chaldees, to go into the land of Chanaan: and they came as far as Haran, and dwelt there. 
    32: And the days of Thare were two hundred and five years, and he died in Haran.

  Chapter 12.

    1: And the Lord said to Abram: Go forth out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and out of thy father's house, and come into the land which I shall shew thee. 
    2: And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and magnify thy name, and thou shalt be blessed. 
    3: I will bless them that bless thee, and curse them that curse thee, and IN THEE shall all the kindred of the earth be blessed: 
    4: So Abram went out as the Lord had commanded him, and Lot went with him: Abram was seventy-five years old when he went forth from Haran. 
    5: And he took Sarai his wife, and Lot his brother's son, and all the substance which they had gathered, and the souls which they had gotten in Haran: and they went out to go into the land of Chanaan. And when they were come into it,
    6: Abram passed through the country into the place of Sichem, as far as the noble vale: now the Chanaanite was at that time in the land. 
    7: And the Lord appeared to Abram, and said to him: To thy seed will I give this land. And he built there an altar to the Lord, who had appeared to him. 
    8: And passing on from thence to a mountain, that was on the east side of Bethel, he there pitched his tent, having Bethel on the west, and Hai on the east; he built there also an altar to the Lord, and called upon his name. 
    9: And Abram went forward, going, and proceeding on to the south. 
    10: And there came a famine in the country; and Abram went down into Egypt, to sojourn there: for the famine was very grievous in the land.
    11: And when he was near to enter into Egypt, he said to Sarai his wife: I know that thou art a beautiful woman: 
    12: And that when the Egyptians shall see thee, they will say: She is his wife: and they will kill me, and keep thee. 
    13: Say, therefore, I pray thee, that thou art my sister: that I may be well used for thee, and that my soul may live for thy sake. 
    14: And when Abram was come into Egypt, the Egyptians saw the woman that she was very beautiful. 
    15: And the princes told Pharao, and praised her before him: and the woman was taken into the house of Pharao.
    16: And they used Abram well for her sake. And he had sheep and oxen, and he asses, and men servants and maid servants, and she asses, and camels. 
    17: But the Lord scourged Pharao and his house with most grievous stripes for Sarai, Abram's wife. 
    18: And Pharao called Abram, and said to him: What is this that thou hast done to me? Why didst thou not tell me that she was thy wife? 
    19: For what cause didst thou say, she was thy sister, that I might take her to my wife? Now, therefore, there is thy wife, take her, and go thy way. 
    20: And Pharao gave his men orders concerning Abram: and they led him away, and his wife, and all that he had.

End of day 3.