Day 231:

Reading Jeremiah, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: Go about through the streets of Jerusalem, and see, and consider, and seek in the broad places thereof, if you can find a man that executeth judgment, and seeketh faith: and I will be merciful unto it. 
    2: And though they say: The Lord liveth; this also they will swear falsely. 
    3: O Lord, thy eyes are upon truth: thou hast struck them, and they have not grieved: thou hast bruised them, and they have refused to receive correction: they have made their faces harder than the rock, and they have refused to return. 
    4: But I said: Perhaps these are poor and foolish, that know not the way of the Lord, the judgment of their God. 
    5: I will go therefore to the great men, and I will speak to them: for they know the way of the Lord, the judgment of their God: and behold these have together broken the yoke more, and have burst the bonds.
    6: Wherefore a lion out of the wood hath slain them, a wolf in the evening, hath spoiled them, a leopard watcheth for their cities: every one that shall go out thence shall be taken, because their transgressions are multiplied, their rebellions are strengthened. 
    7: How can I be merciful to thee? Thy children have forsaken me, and swear by them that are not gods: I fed them to the full, and they committed adultery, and rioted in the harlot's house. 
    8: They are become as amorous horses and stallions, every one neighed after his neighbour's wife. 
    9: Shall I not visit for these things, sayeth the Lord? and shall not my soul take revenge on such a nation? 
    10: Scale down the walls thereof, and throw them down, but do not utterly destroy: take away the branches thereof, because they are not the Lord's.
    11: For the house of Israel, and the house of Juda have greatly transgressed against me, saith the Lord. 
    12: They have denied the Lord, and said, It is not he: and the evil shall not come upon us: we shall not see the sword and famine. 
    13: The prophets have spoken in the wind, and there was no word of God in them: these things therefore shall befall them. 
    14: Thus saith the Lord the God of hosts: Because you have spoken this word, behold I will make my words in thy mouth as fire, and this people as wood, and it shall devour them. 
    15: Behold I will bring upon you a nation from afar, O house of Israel, saith the Lord: a strong nation, an ancient nation, a nation whose language thou shalt not know, nor understand what they say.
    16: Their quiver is as an open sepulchre, they are all valiant. 
    17: And they shall eat up thy corn, and thy bread: they shall devour thy sons, and thy daughters: they shall eat up thy flocks, and thy herds: they shall eat thy vineyards, and thy figs: and with the sword they shall destroy thy strong cities, wherein thou trustest. 
    18: Nevertheless in those days, saith the Lord, I will not bring you to utter destruction. 
    19: And if you shall say: why hath the Lord our God done all these things to us? Thou shalt say to them: As you have forsaken me, and served a strange god in your own land, so shall you serve strangers in a land that is not your own. 
    20: Declare ye this to the house of Jacob, and publish it in Juda, saying:
    21: Hear, O foolish people, and without understanding: who have eyes, and see not: and ears, and hear not. 
    22: Will not you then fear me, saith the Lord: and will you not repent at my presence? I have set the sand a bound for the sea, an everlasting ordinance, which it shall not pass over: and the waves thereof shall toss themselves, and shall not prevail: they shall swell, and shall not pass over it. 
    23: But the heart of this people is become hard of belief and provoking, they are revolted and gone away. 
    24: And they have not said in their heart: let us fear the Lord our God, who giveth us the early and the latter rain in due season: who preserveth for us the fullness of the yearly harvest. 
    25: Your iniquities have turned these things away, and your sins have withholden good things from you.
    26: For among my people are found wicked men, that lie in wait as fowlers, setting snares and traps to catch men. 
    27: As a net is full of birds, so their houses are full of deceit: therefore are they become great and enriched. 
    28: They are grown gross and fat: and have most wickedly transgressed my words. They have not judged the cause of the widow, they have not managed the cause of the fatherless, they have not judged the judgment of the poor. 
    29: Shall I not visit for these things, saith the Lord? or shall not my soul take revenge on such a nation? 
    30: Astonishing and wonderful things have been done in the land.
    31: The prophets prophesied falsehood, and the priests clapped their hands: and my people loved such things: what then shall be done in the end thereof?

  Chapter 6.

    1: Strengthen yourselves, ye sons of Benjamin, in the midst of Jerusalem, and sound the trumpet in Thecua, and set up the standard over Bethacarem: for evil is seen out of the north, and a great destruction. 
    2: I have likened the daughter of Sion to a beautiful and delicate woman. 
    3: The shepherds shall come to her with their flocks: they have pitched their tents against her round about: every one shall feed them that are under his hand. 
    4: Prepare ye war against her: arise, and let us go up at midday: woe unto us, for the day is declined, for the shadows of the evening are grown longer. 
    5: Arise, and let us go up in the night, and destroy her houses.
    6: For thus saith the Lord of hosts: Hew down her trees, cast up a trench about Jerusalem: this is the city to be visited, all oppression is in the midst of her. 
    7: As a cistern maketh its water cold, so hath she made her wickedness cold: violence and spoil shall be heard in her, infirmity and stripes are continually before me. 
    8: Be thou instructed, O Jerusalem, lest my soul depart from thee, lest I make thee desolate, a land uninhabited. 
    9: Thus saith the Lord of hosts: They shall gather the remains of Israel, as in a vine, even to one cluster: turn back thy hand, as a grape gatherer into the basket. 
    10: To whom shall I speak? and to whom shall I testify, that he may hear? behold, their ears are uncircumcised, and they cannot hear: behold the word of the Lord is become unto them a reproach: and and they will not receive it.
    11: Therefore am I full of the fury of the Lord, I am weary with holding in: pour it out upon the child abroad, and upon the council of the young men together: for man and woman shall be taken, the ancient and he that is full of days. 
    12: And their houses shall be turned over to others, with their lands and their wives together: for I will stretch for my hand upon the inhabitants of the land, saith the Lord. 
    13: For from the least of them even to the greatest, all are given to covetousness: and from the prophet even to the priest, all are guilty of deceit. 
    14: And they healed the breach of the daughter of my people disgracefully, saying: Peace, peace: and there was no peace. 
    15: They were confounded, because they committed abomination: yea, rather they were not confounded with confusion, and they knew not how to blush: wherefore they shall fall among them that fall: in the time of their visitation they shall fall down, saith the Lord.
    16: Thus saith the Lord: Stand ye on the ways, and see and ask for the old paths which is the good way, and walk ye in it: and you shall find refreshment for your souls. And they said: we will not walk. 
    17: And I appointed watchmen over you, saying: Hearken ye to the sound of the trumpet. And they said: We will not hearken. 
    18: Therefore hear, ye nations, and know, O congregation, what great things I will do to them. 
    19: Hear, O earth: Behold I will bring evils upon this people, the fruits of their own thoughts: because they have not heard my words, and they have cast away my law. 
    20: To what purpose do you bring me frankincense from Saba, and the sweet smelling cane from a far country? your holocausts are not acceptable, nor are your sacrifices pleasing to me.
    21: Therefore thus saith the Lord: Behold, I will bring destruction upon this people, by which fathers and sons together shall fall, neighbour and kinsman shall perish. 
    22: Thus saith the Lord: Behold a people cometh from the land of the north, and a great nation shall rise up from the ends of the earth. 
    23: They shall lay hold on arrow and shield: they are cruel, and will have no mercy. Their voice shall roar like the sea: and they shall mount upon horses, prepared as men for war, against thee, O daughter of Sion. 
    24: We have heard the fame thereof, our hands grow feeble: anguish hath taken hold of us, as a woman in labor. 
    25: Go not out into the fields, nor walk in the highway: for the sword of the enemy, and fear is on every side.
    26: Gird thee with sackcloth, O daughter of my people, and sprinkle thee with ashes: make thee mourning as for an only son, a bitter lamentation, because the destroyer shall suddenly come upon us. 
    27: I have set thee for a strong trier among my people: and thou shalt know and prove their way. 
    28: All of these princes go out of the way, they walk deceitfully, they are brass and iron: they are all corrupted. 
    29: The bellows have failed, the lead is consumed in the fire, the founder hath melted in vain: for their wicked deeds are not consumed. 
    30: Call them reprobate silver, for the Lord hath rejected them.

  Chapter 7.

    1: The word that came to Jeremias from the Lord, saying: 
    2: Stand in the gate of the house of the Lord, and proclaim there this word, and say: Hear ye the word of the Lord, all ye men of Juda, that enter in at these gates, to adore the Lord. 
    3: Thus saith the Lord of hosts the God of Israel: Make your ways and your doings good: and I will dwell with you in this place. 
    4: Trust not in lying words, saying: The temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord, it is the temple of the Lord. 
    5: For if you will order well your ways, and your doings: if you will execute judgment between a man and his neighbour,
    6: If you oppress not the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow, and shed not innocent blood in this place, and walk not after strange gods to your own hurt, 
    7: I will dwell with you in this place: in the land, which I gave to your fathers from the beginning and for evermore. 
    8: Behold you put your trust in lying words, which shall not profit you: 
    9: To steal, to murder, to commit adultery, to swear falsely, to offer to Baalim, and to go after strange gods, which you know not. 
    10: And you have come, and stood before me in this house, in which my name is called upon, and have said: We are delivered, because we have done all these abominations.
    11: Is this house then, in which my name hath been called upon, in your eyes become a den of robbers? I, I am he: I have seen it, saith the Lord. 
    12: Go ye to my place in Silo, where my name dwelt from the beginning: and see what I did to it for the wickedness of my people Israel: 
    13: And now, because you have done all these works, saith the Lord: and I have spoken to you rising up early, and speaking, and you have not heard: and I have called you, and you have not answered: 
    14: I will do to this house, in which my name is called upon, and in which you trust, and to the places which I have given you and your fathers, as I did to Silo. 
    15: And I will cast you away from before my face, as I have cast away all your brethren, the whole seed of Ephraim.
    16: Therefore, do not thou pray for this people, nor take to thee praise and supplication for them: and do not withstand me: for I will not hear thee. 
    17: Seest thou not what they do in the cities of Juda, and in the streets of Jerusalem? 
    18: The children gather wood, and the fathers kindle the fire and the women knead the dough, to make cakes to the queen of heaven, and to offer libations to strange gods, and to provoke me to anger. 
    19: Do they provoke me to anger, saith the Lord? Is it not themselves, to the confusion of their contenance? 
    20: Therefore thus saith the Lord God: Behold my wrath and my indignation was enkindled against this place, upon men and upon beasts, and upon the trees of the field, and upon the fruits of the land, and it shall burn, and shall not be quenched.
    21: Thus saith the Lord of hosts the God of Israel: Add your burnt offerings to your sacrifices, and eat ye the flesh. 
    22: For I spoke not to your fathers, and I commanded them not, in the day that I brought them out of the land of Egypt, concerning the matter of burnt offerings and sacrifices. 
    23: But this thing I commanded them, saying: Hearken to my voice, and I will be your God, and you shall be my people: and walk ye in all the way that I have commanded you, that it may be well with you. 
    24: But they hearkened not, nor inclined their ear: but walked in their own will, and in the perversity of their wicked heart: and went backward and not forward, 
    25: From the day that their fathers came out of the land of Egypt, even to this day. And I have sent to you all my servants the prophets from day to day, rising up early and sending.
    26: And they have not hearkened to me: nor inclined their ear: but have hardened their neck, and have done worse than their fathers. 
    27: And thou shalt speak to them all these words, but they will not hearken to thee: and thou shalt call them, but they will not answer thee. 
    28: And thou shalt say to them: This is a nation which hath not hearkened to the voice of the Lord their God, nor received instruction: Faith is lost, and is carried away out of their mouth. 
    29: Cut off thy hair, and cast it away: and take up a lamentation on high: for the Lord hath rejected and forsaken the generation of his wrath, 
    30: Because the children of Juda have done evil in my eyes, saith the Lord. They have set their abominations in the house in which my name is called upon, to pollute it;
    31: And they have built the high places of Topeth, which is in the valley of the son of Ennom, to burn their sons, and their daughters in the fire: which I commanded not, nor thought on in my heart. 
    32: Therefore behold the days shall come, saith the Lord, and it shall no more be called Topeth, nor the valley of the son of Ennom: but the valley of slaughter, and they shall bury in Topeth, because there is no place. 
    33: And the carcasses of this people shall be meat for the fowls of the air, and for the beasts of the earth, and there shall be non to drive them away. 
    34: And I will cause to cease out of the cities of Juda, and out of the streets of Jerusalem, the voice of joy, and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride: for the land shall be desolate.

  Chapter 8.

    1: At that time, saith the Lord, they shall cast out the bones of the kings of Juda, and the bones of the princes thereof, and the bones of the priests, and the bones of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, out of their graves. 
    2: And they shall spread them abroad to the sun, and the moon, and all the host of heaven, whom they have loved, and whom they have served, and after whom they have walked, and whom they have sought, and adored: they shall not be gathered, and they shall not be buried: they shall be as dung upon the face of the earth. 
    3: And death shall be chosen rather than life by all that shall remain of this wicked kindred in all places, which are left, to which I have cast them out, saith the Lord of hosts. 
    4: And thou shalt say to them: Thus saith the Lord: Shall not he that falleth, rise again? and he that is turned away, shall he not turn again? 
    5: Why then is this people in Jerusalem turned away with a stubborn revolting? they have laid hold on lying, and have refused to return.
    6: I attended, and hearkened; no man speaketh what is good, there is none that doth penance for his sin, saying: What have I done? They are all turned to their own course, as a horse rushing to the battle. 
    7: The kite in the air hath known her time: the turtle, and the swallow, and the stork have observed the time of their coming: but my people have not known the judgment of the Lord. 
    8: How do you say: We are wise, and the law of the Lord is with us? Indeed the lying pen of the scribes hath wrought falsehood. 
    9: The wise men are confounded, they are dismayed, and taken: for they have cast away the word of the Lord, and there is no wisdom in them. 
    10: Therefore I will give their women to strangers, their fields to others for an inheritance: because from the least even to the greatest all follow covetousness: from the prophet even to the priest, all deal deceitfully.
    11: And they healed the breach of the daughter of my people disgracefully, saying Peace, peace: when there was no peace. 
    12: They are confounded, because they have committed abomination: yea rather they are not confounded with confusion, and they have not know how to blush: therefore shall they fall among them that fall; in the time of their visitation they shall fall, saith the Lord. 
    13: Gathering I will gather them together, saith the Lord, there is no grape on the vines, and there are no figs on the fig tree, the leaf is fallen: and I have given them the things that are passed away. 
    14: Why do we sit still? assemble yourselves, and let us enter into the fenced city, and let us be silent there: for the Lord our God hath put us to silence, and hath given us water of gall to drink: for we have sinned against the Lord. 
    15: We looked for peace and no good came: for a time of healing, and behold fear.
    16: The snorting of his horse was heard from Dan, all the land was moved at the sound of the neighing of his warriors: and they came and devoured the land, and all that was in it: the city and its inhabitants. 
    17: For behold I will send among you serpents, basilisks, against which there is no charm: and they shall bite you, saith the Lord. 
    18: My sorrow is above sorrow, my heart mourneth within me. 
    19: Behold the voice of the daughter my people from a far country: Is not the Lord in Sion, or is not her king in her? why then have they provoked me to wrath with their idols, and strange vanities? 
    20: The harvest is passed, the summer is ended, and we are not saved.
    21: For the affliction of the daughter of my people I am afflicted, and made sorrowful, astonishment hath taken hold on me. 
    22: Is there no balm in Galaad? or is no physician there? Why then is not the wound of the daughter of my people closed?

End of day 231.