Day 145:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: Unto the end, for her that obtaineth the inheritance. A psalm of David. 
    2: Give ear, O Lord, to my words, understand my cry. 
    3: Hearken to the voice of my prayer, O my King and my God. 
    4: For to thee will I pray: O Lord, in the morning thou shalt hear my voice. 
    5: In the morning I will stand before thee, and will see: because thou art not a God that willest iniquity.
    6: Neither shall the wicked dwell near thee: nor shall the unjust abide before thy eyes. 
    7: Thou hatest all the workers of iniquity: Thou wilt destroy all that speak a lie. The bloody and the deceitful man the Lord will abhor. 
    8: But as for me in the multitude of thy mercy, I will come into thy house; I will worship towards thy holy temple, in thy fear. 
    9: Conduct me, O Lord, in thy justice: because of my enemies, direct my way in thy sight. 
    10: For there is no truth in their mouth; their heart is vain.
    11: Their throat is an open sepulchre: they dealt deceitfully with their tongues: judge them, O God. Let them fall from their devices: according to the multitude of their wickedness cast them out: for they have provoked thee, O Lord. 
    12: But let all them be glad that hope in thee: they shall rejoice for ever, and thou shalt dwell in them. And all they that love thy name shall glory in thee: 
    13: For thou wilt bless the just. O Lord, thou hast crowned us, as with a shield of thy good will.

  Chapter 6.

    1: Unto the end, in verses, a psalm for David, for the octave. 
    2: O Lord, rebuke me not in thy indignation, nor chastise me in thy wrath. 
    3: Have mercy on me, O Lord, for I am weak: heal me, O Lord, for my bones are troubled. 
    4: And my soul is troubled exceedingly: but thou, O Lord, how long? 
    5: Turn to me, O Lord, and deliver my soul: O save me for thy mercy's sake.
    6: For there is no one in death, that is mindful of thee: and who shall confess to thee in hell? 
    7: I have laboured in my groanings, every night I will wash my bed: I will water my couch with my tears. 
    8: My eye is troubled through indignation: I have grown old amongst all my enemies. 
    9: Depart from me, all ye workers of iniquity: for the Lord hath heard the voice of my weeping. 
    10: The Lord hath heard my supplication: the Lord hath received my prayer.
    11: Let all my enemies be ashamed, and be very much troubled: let them be turned back, and be ashamed very speedily.

  Chapter 7.

    1: The psalm of David which he sung to the Lord for the words of Chusi the son of Jemini. 
    2: Kings 16] 
    3: O Lord my God, in thee have I put my trust: save me from all them that persecute me, and deliver me. 
    4: Lest at any time he seize upon my soul like a lion, while there is no one to redeem me, nor to save. 
    5: O Lord my God, if I have done this thing, if there be iniquity in my hands: 
    6: If I have rendered to them that repaid me evils, let me deservedly fall empty before my enemies.
    7: Let the enemy pursue my soul, and take it, and tread down my life on the earth, and bring down my glory to the dust. 
    8: Rise up, O Lord, in thy anger: and be thou exalted in the borders of my enemies. And arise, O Lord my God, in the precept which thou hast commanded: 
    9: And a congregation of people shall surround thee. And for their sakes return thou on high. 
    10: The Lord judgeth the people. Judge me, O Lord, according to my justice, and according to my innocence in me. 
    11: The wickedness of sinners shall be brought to nought: and thou shalt direct the just: the searcher of hearts and reins is God.
    12: Just is my help from the Lord: who saveth the upright of heart. 
    13: God is a just judge, strong and patient: is he angry every day? 
    14: Except you will be converted, he will brandish his sword: he hath bent his bow and made it ready. 
    15: And in it he hath prepared the instruments of death, he hath made ready his arrows for them that burn. 
    16: Behold he hath been in labour with injustice; he hath conceived sorrow, and brought forth iniquity.
    17: He hath opened a pit and dug it; and he is fallen into the hole he made. 
    18: His sorrow shall be turned on his own head: and his iniquity shall comedown upon his crown. 
    19: I will give glory to the Lord according to his justice: and will sing to the name of the Lord the most high.

  Chapter 8.

    1: Unto the end, for the presses: a psalm of David. 
    2: O Lord our Lord, how admirable is thy name in the whole earth! For thy magnificence is elevated above the heavens. 
    3: Out of the mouth of infants and of sucklings thou hast perfected praise, because of thy enemies, that thou mayst destroy the enemy and the avenger. 
    4: For I will behold thy heavens, the works of thy fingers: the moon and the stars which thou hast founded. 
    5: What is man that thou art mindful of him? or the son of man that thou visitest him?
    6: Thou hast made him a little less than the angels, thou hast crowned him with glory and honour: 
    7: And hast set him over the works of thy hands. 
    8: Thou hast subjected all things under his feet, all sheep and oxen: moreover the beasts also of the fields. 
    9: The birds of the air, and the fishes of the sea, that pass through the paths of the sea. 
    10: O Lord our Lord, how admirable is thy name in all the earth!

End of day 145.