Day 303:

Reading John, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: And Jesus passing by, saw a man, who was blind from his birth: 
    2: And his disciples asked him: Rabbi, who hath sinned, this man, or his parents, that he should be born blind? 
    3: Jesus answered: Neither hath this man sinned, nor his parents; but that the works of God should be made manifest in him. 
    4: I must work the works of him that sent me, whilst it is day: the night cometh, when no man can work. 
    5: As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world.
    6: When he had said these things, he spat on the ground, and made clay of the spittle, and spread the clay on his eyes, 
    7: And said to him: Go, wash in the pool of Siloe, which is interpreted, Sent. He went therefore, and washed, and he came seeing. 
    8: The neighbours therefore, and they who had seen him before that he was a beggar, said: Is not this he that sat and begged? Some said: This is he. 
    9: But others said: No, but he is like him. But he said: I am he. 
    10: They said therefore to him: How were thy eyes opened?
    11: He answered: That man that is called Jesus made clay, and anointed my eyes, and said to me: Go to the pool of Siloe, and wash. And I went, I washed, and I see. 
    12: And they said to him: Where is he? He saith: I know not. 
    13: They bring him that had been blind to the Pharisees. 
    14: Now it was the sabbath, when Jesus made the clay, and opened his eyes. 
    15: Again therefore the Pharisees asked him, how he had received his sight. But he said to them: He put clay upon my eyes, and I washed, and I see.
    16: Some therefore of the Pharisees said: This man is not of God, who keepeth not the sabbath. But others said: How can a man that is a sinner do such miracles? And there was a division among them. 
    17: They say therefore to the blind man again: What sayest thou of him that hath opened thy eyes? And he said: He is a prophet. 
    18: The Jews then did not believe concerning him, that he had been blind, and had received his sight, until they called the parents of him that had received his sight, 
    19: And asked them, saying: Is this your son, who you say was born blind? How then doth he now see? 
    20: His parents answered them, and said: We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind:
    21: But how he now seeth, we know not; or who hath opened his eyes, we know not: ask himself: he is of age, let him speak for himself. 
    22: These things his parents said, because they feared the Jews: for the Jews had already agreed among themselves, that if any man should confess him to be Christ, he should be put out of the synagogue. 
    23: Therefore did his parents say: He is of age, ask himself. 
    24: They therefore called the man again that had been blind, and said to him: Give glory to God. We know that this man is a sinner. 
    25: He said therefore to them: If he be a sinner, I know not: one thing I know, that whereas I was blind, now I see.
    26: They said then to him: What did he to thee? How did he open thy eyes? 
    27: He answered them: I have told you already, and you have heard: why would you hear it again? will you also become his disciples? 
    28: They reviled him therefore, and said: Be thou his disciple; but we are the disciples of Moses. 
    29: We know that God spoke to Moses: but as to this man, we know not from whence he is. 
    30: The man answered, and said to them: Why, herein is a wonderful thing, that you know not from whence he is, and he hath opened my eyes.
    31: Now we know that God doth not hear sinners: but if a man be a server of God, and doth his will, him he heareth. 
    32: From the beginning of the world it hath not been heard, that any man hath opened the eyes of one born blind. 
    33: Unless this man were of God, he could not do any thing. 
    34: They answered, and said to him: Thou wast wholly born in sins, and dost thou teach us? And they cast him out. 
    35: Jesus heard that they had cast him out: and when he had found him, he said to him: Dost thou believe in the Son of God?
    36: He answered, and said: Who is he, Lord, that I may believe in him? 
    37: And Jesus said to him: Thou hast both seen him; and it is he that talketh with thee. 
    38: And he said: I believe, Lord. And falling down, he adored him. 
    39: And Jesus said: For judgment I am come into this world; that they who see not, may see; and they who see, may become blind. 
    40: And some of the Pharisees, who were with him, heard: and they said unto him: Are we also blind?
    41: Jesus said to them: If you were blind, you should not have sin: but now you say: We see. Your sin remaineth.

  Chapter 10.

    1: Amen, amen I say to you: He that entereth not by the door into the sheepfold, but climbeth up another way, the same is a thief and a robber. 
    2: But he that entereth in by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. 
    3: To him the porter openeth; and the sheep hear his voice: and he calleth his own sheep by name, and leadeth them out. 
    4: And when he hath let out his own sheep, he goeth before them: and the sheep follow him, because they know his voice. 
    5: But a stranger they follow not, but fly from him, because they know not the voice of strangers.
    6: This proverb Jesus spoke to them. But they understood not what he spoke to them. 
    7: Jesus therefore said to them again: Amen, amen I say to you, I am the door of the sheep. 
    8: All others, as many as have come, are thieves and robbers: and the sheep heard them not. 
    9: I am the door. By me, if any man enter in, he shall be saved: and he shall go in, and go out, and shall find pastures. 
    10: The thief cometh not, but for to steal, and to kill, and to destroy. I am come that they may have life, and may have it more abundantly.
    11: I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd giveth his life for his sheep. 
    12: But the hireling, and he that is not the shepherd, whose own the sheep are not, seeth the wolf coming, and leaveth the sheep, and flieth: and the wolf catcheth, and scattereth the sheep: 
    13: And the hireling flieth, because he is a hireling: and he hath no care for the sheep. 
    14: I am the good shepherd; and I know mine, and mine know me. 
    15: As the Father knoweth me, and I know the Father: and I lay down my life for my sheep.
    16: And other sheep I have, that are not of this fold: them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice, and there shall be one fold and one shepherd. 
    17: Therefore doth the Father love me: because I lay down my life, that I may take it again. 
    18: No man taketh it away from me: but I lay it down of myself, and I have power to lay it down: and I have power to take it up again. This commandment have I received of my Father. 
    19: A dissension rose again among the Jews for these words. 
    20: And many of them said: He hath a devil, and is mad: why hear you him?
    21: Others said: These are not the words of one that hath a devil: Can a devil open the eyes of the blind? 
    22: And it was the feast of the dedication at Jerusalem: and it was winter. 
    23: And Jesus walked in the temple, in Solomon's porch. 
    24: The Jews therefore came round about him, and said to him: How long dost thou hold our souls in suspense? If thou be the Christ, tell us plainly. 
    25: Jesus answered them: I speak to you, and you believe not: the works that I do in the name of my Father, they give testimony of me.
    26: But you do not believe, because you are not of my sheep. 
    27: My sheep hear my voice: and I know them, and they follow me. 
    28: And I give them life everlasting; and they shall not perish for ever, and no man shall pluck them out of my hand. 
    29: That which my Father hath given me, is greater than all: and no one can snatch them out of the hand of my Father. 
    30: I and the Father are one.
    31: The Jews then took up stones to stone him. 
    32: Jesus answered them: Many good works I have shewed you from my Father; for which of these works do you stone me? 
    33: The Jews answered him: For a good work we stone thee not, but for blasphemy; and because that thou, being a man, maketh thyself God. 
    34: Jesus answered them: Is it not written in your law: I said you are gods? 
    35: If he called them gods, to whom the word of God was spoken, and the scripture cannot be broken;
    36: Do you say of him whom the Father hath sanctified and sent into the world: Thou blasphemest, because I said, I am the Son of God? 
    37: If I do not the works of my Father, believe me not. 
    38: But if I do, though you will not believe me, believe the works: that you may know and believe that the Father is in me, and I in the Father. 
    39: They sought therefore to take him; and he escaped out of their hands. 
    40: And he went again beyond the Jordan, into that place where John was baptizing first; and there he abode.
    41: And many resorted to him, and they said: John indeed did no sign. 
    42: But all things whatsoever John said of this man, were true. And many believed in him.

  Chapter 11.

    1: Now there was a certain man sick, named Lazarus, of Bethania, of the town of Mary and Martha her sister. 
    2: (And Mary was she that anointed the Lord with ointment, and wiped his feet with her hair: whose brother Lazarus was sick.) 
    3: His sisters therefore sent to him, saying: Lord, behold, he whom thou lovest is sick. 
    4: And Jesus hearing it, said to them: This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God: that the Son of God may be glorified by it. 
    5: Now Jesus loved Martha, and her sister Mary, and Lazarus.
    6: When he had heard therefore that he was sick, he still remained in the same place two days. 
    7: Then after that, he said to his disciples: Let us go into Judea again. 
    8: The disciples say to him: Rabbi, the Jews but now sought to stone thee: and goest thou thither again? 
    9: Jesus answered: Are there not twelve hours of the day? If a man walk in the day, he stumbleth not, because he seeth the light of this world: 
    10: But if he walk in the night, he stumbleth, because the light is not in him.
    11: These things he said; and after that he said to them: Lazarus our friend sleepeth; but I go that I may awake him out of sleep. 
    12: His disciples therefore said: Lord, if he sleep, he shall do well. 
    13: But Jesus spoke of his death; and they thought that he spoke of the repose of sleep. 
    14: Then therefore Jesus said to them plainly: Lazarus is dead. 
    15: And I am glad, for your sakes, that I was not there, that you may believe: but let us go to him.
    16: Thomas therefore, who is called Didymus, said to his fellow disciples: Let us also go, that we may die with him. 
    17: Jesus therefore came, and found that he had been four days already in the grave. 
    18: (Now Bethania was near Jerusalem, about fifteen furlongs off.) 
    19: And many of the Jews were come to Martha and Mary, to comfort them concerning their brother. 
    20: Martha therefore, as soon as she heard that Jesus had come, went to meet him: but Mary sat at home.
    21: Martha therefore said to Jesus: Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died. 
    22: But now also I know that whatsoever thou wilt ask of God, God will give it thee. 
    23: Jesus saith to her: Thy brother shall rise again. 
    24: Martha saith to him: I know that he shall rise again, in the resurrection at the last day. 
    25: Jesus said to her: I am the resurrection and the life: he that believeth in me, although he be dead, shall live:
    26: And every one that liveth, and believeth in me, shall not die for ever. Believest thou this? 
    27: She saith to him: Yea, Lord, I have believed that thou art Christ the Son of the living God, who art come into this world. 
    28: And when she had said these things, she went, and called her sister Mary secretly, saying: The master is come, and calleth for thee. 
    29: She, as soon as she heard this, riseth quickly, and cometh to him. 
    30: For Jesus was not yet come into the town: but he was still in that place where Martha had met him.
    31: The Jews therefore, who were with her in the house, and comforted her, when they saw Mary that she rose up speedily and went out, followed her, saying: She goeth to the grave to weep there. 
    32: When Mary therefore was come where Jesus was, seeing him, she fell down at his feet, and saith to him: Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died. 
    33: Jesus, therefore, when he saw her weeping, and the Jews that were come with her, weeping, groaned in the spirit, and troubled himself, 
    34: And said: Where have you laid him? They say to him: Lord, come and see. 
    35: And Jesus wept.
    36: The Jews therefore said: Behold how he loved him. 
    37: But some of them said: Could not he that opened the eyes of the man born blind, have caused that this man should not die? 
    38: Jesus therefore again groaning in himself, cometh to the sepulchre. Now it was a cave; and a stone was laid over it. 
    39: Jesus saith: Take away the stone. Martha, the sister of him that was dead, saith to him: Lord, by this time he stinketh, for he is now of four days. 
    40: Jesus saith to her: Did not I say to thee, that if thou believe, thou shalt see the glory of God?
    41: They took therefore the stone away. And Jesus lifting up his eyes said: Father, I give thee thanks that thou hast heard me. 
    42: And I knew that thou hearest me always; but because of the people who stand about have I said it, that they may believe that thou hast sent me. 
    43: When he had said these things, he cried with a loud voice: Lazarus, come forth. 
    44: And presently he that had been dead came forth, bound feet and hands with winding bands; and his face was bound about with a napkin. Jesus said to them: Loose him, and let him go. 
    45: Many therefore of the Jews, who were come to Mary and Martha, and had seen the things that Jesus did, believed in him.
    46: But some of them went to the Pharisees, and told them the things that Jesus had done. 
    47: The chief priests therefore, and the Pharisees, gathered a council, and said: What do we, for this man doth many miracles? 
    48: If we let him alone so, all will believe in him; and the Romans will come, and take away our place and nation. 
    49: But one of them, named Caiphas, being the high priest that year, said to them: You know nothing. 
    50: Neither do you consider that it is expedient for you that one man should die for the people, and that the whole nation perish not.
    51: And this he spoke not of himself: but being the high priest of that year, he prophesied that Jesus should die for the nation. 
    52: And not only for the nation, but to gather together in one the children of God, that were dispersed. 
    53: From that day therefore they devised to put him to death. 
    54: Wherefore Jesus walked no more openly among the Jews; but he went into a country near the desert, unto a city that is called Ephrem, and there he abode with his disciples. 
    55: And the pasch of the Jews was at hand; and many from the country went up to Jerusalem, before the pasch to purify themselves.
    56: They sought therefore for Jesus; and they discoursed one with another, standing in the temple: What think you that he is not come to the festival day? And the chief priests and Pharisees had given a commandment, that if any man knew where he was, he should tell, that they might apprehend him.

  Chapter 12.

    1: Jesus therefore, six days before the pasch, came to Bethania, where Lazarus had been dead, whom Jesus raised to life. 
    2: And they made him a supper there: and Martha served: but Lazarus was one of them that were at table with him. 
    3: Mary therefore took a pound of ointment of right spikenard, of great price, and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair; and the house was filled with the odour of the ointment. 
    4: Then one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, he that was about to betray him, said: 
    5: Why was not this ointment sold for three hundred pence, and given to the poor?
    6: Now he said this, not because he cared for the poor; but because he was a thief, and having the purse, carried the things that were put therein. 
    7: Jesus therefore said: Let her alone, that she may keep it against the day of my burial. 
    8: For the poor you have always with you; but me you have not always. 
    9: A great multitude therefore of the Jews knew that he was there; and they came, not for Jesus' sake only, but that they might see Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead. 
    10: But the chief priests thought to kill Lazarus also:
    11: Because many of the Jews, by reason of him, went away, and believed in Jesus. 
    12: And on the next day, a great multitude that was to come to the festival day, when they had heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, 
    13: Took branches of palm trees, and went forth to meet him, and cried: Hosanna, blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord, the king of Israel. 
    14: And Jesus found a young ass, and sat upon it, as it is written: 
    15: Fear not, daughter of Sion: behold, thy king cometh, sitting on an ass's colt.
    16: These things his disciples did not know at the first; but when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things were written of him, and that they had done these things to him. 
    17: The multitude therefore gave testimony, which was with him, when he called Lazarus out of the grave, and raised him from the dead. 
    18: For which reason also the people came to meet him, because they heard that he had done this miracle. 
    19: The Pharisees therefore said among themselves: Do you see that we prevail nothing? behold, the whole world is gone after him. 
    20: Now there were certain Gentiles among them, who came up to adore on the festival day.
    21: These therefore came to Philip, who was of Bethsaida of Galilee, and desired him, saying: Sir, we would see Jesus. 
    22: Philip cometh, and telleth Andrew. Again Andrew and Philip told Jesus. 
    23: But Jesus answered them, saying: The hour is come, that the Son of man should be glorified. 
    24: Amen, amen I say to you, unless the grain of wheat falling into the ground die, 
    25: Itself remaineth alone. But if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit. He that loveth his life shall lose it; and he that hateth his life in this world, keepeth it unto life eternal.
    26: If any man minister to me, let him follow me; and where I am, there also shall my minister be. If any man minister to me, him will my Father honour. 
    27: Now is my soul troubled. And what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour. But for this cause I came unto this hour. 
    28: Father, glorify thy name. A voice therefore came from heaven: I have both glorified it, and will glorify it again. 
    29: The multitude therefore that stood and heard, said that it thundered. Others said: An angel spoke to him. 
    30: Jesus answered, and said: This voice came not because of me, but for your sakes.
    31: Now is the judgment of the world: now shall the prince of this world be cast out. 
    32: And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all things to myself. 
    33: (Now this he said, signifying what death he should die.) 
    34: The multitude answered him: We have heard out of the law, that Christ abideth for ever; and how sayest thou: The Son of man must be lifted up? Who is this Son of man? 
    35: Jesus therefore said to them: Yet a little while, the light is among you. Walk whilst you have the light, that the darkness overtake you not. And he that walketh in darkness, knoweth not whither he goeth.
    36: Whilst you have the light, believe in the light, that you may be the children of light. These things Jesus spoke; and he went away, and hid himself from them. 
    37: And whereas he had done so many miracles before them, they believed not in him: 
    38: That the saying of Isaias the prophet might be fulfilled, which he said: Lord, who hath believed our hearing? and to whom hath the arm of the Lord been revealed? 
    39: Therefore they could not believe, because Isaias said again: 
    40: He hath blinded their eyes, and hardened their heart, that they should not see with their eyes, nor understand with their heart, and be converted, and I should heal them.
    41: These things said Isaias, when he saw his glory, and spoke of him. 
    42: However, many of the chief men also believed in him; but because of the Pharisees they did not confess him, that they might not be cast out of the synagogue. 
    43: For they loved the glory of men more than the glory of God. 
    44: But Jesus cried, and said: He that believeth in me, doth not believe in me, but in him that sent me. 
    45: And he that seeth me, seeth him that sent me.
    46: I am come a light into the world; that whosoever believeth in me, may not remain in darkness. 
    47: And if any man hear my words, and keep them not, I do not judge him: for I came not to judge the world, but to save the world. 
    48: He that despiseth me, and receiveth not my words, hath one that judgeth him; the word that I have spoken, the same shall judge him in the last day. 
    49: For I have not spoken of myself; but the Father who sent me, he gave me commandment what I should say, and what I should speak. 
    50: And I know that his commandment is life everlasting. The things therefore that I speak, even as the Father said unto me, so do I speak.

End of day 303.