Day 308:

Reading Acts, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: But a certain man named Ananias, with Saphira his wife, sold a piece of land, 
    2: And by fraud kept back part of the price of the land, his wife being privy thereunto: and bringing a certain part of it, laid it at the feet of the apostles. 
    3: But Peter said: Ananias, why hath Satan tempted thy heart, that thou shouldst lie to the Holy Ghost, and by fraud keep part of the price of the land? 
    4: Whilst it remained, did it not remain to thee? and after it was sold, was it not in thy power? Why hast thou conceived this thing in thy heart? Thou hast not lied to men, but to God. 
    5: And Ananias hearing these words, fell down, and gave up the ghost. And there came great fear upon all that heard it.
    6: And the young men rising up, removed him, and carrying him out, buried him. 
    7: And it was about the space of three hours after, when his wife, not knowing what had happened, came in. 
    8: And Peter said to her: Tell me, woman, whether you sold the land for so much? And she said: Yea, for so much. 
    9: And Peter said unto her: Why have you agreed together to tempt the Spirit of the Lord? Behold the feet of them who have buried thy husband are at the door, and they shall carry thee out. 
    10: Immediately she fell down before his feet, and gave up the ghost. And the young men coming in, found her dead: and carried her out, and buried her by her husband.
    11: And there came great fear upon the whole church, and upon all that heard these things. 
    12: And by the hands of the apostles were many signs and wonders wrought among the people. And they were all with one accord in Solomon's porch. 
    13: But of the rest no man durst join himself unto them; but the people magnified them. 
    14: And the multitude of men and women who believed in the Lord, was more increased: 
    15: Insomuch that they brought forth the sick into the streets, and laid them on beds and couches, that when Peter came, his shadow at the least, might overshadow any of them, and they might be delivered from their infirmities.
    16: And there came also together to Jerusalem a multitude out of the neighbouring cities, bringing sick persons, and such as were troubled with unclean spirits; who were all healed. 
    17: Then the high priest rising up, and all they that were with him, (which is the heresy of the Sadducees,) were filled with envy. 
    18: And they laid hands on the apostles, and put them in the common prison. 
    19: But an angel of the Lord by night opening the doors of the prison, and leading them out, said: 
    20: Go, and standing speak in the temple to the people all the words of this life.
    21: Who having heard this, early in the morning, entered into the temple, and taught. And the high priest coming, and they that were with him, called together the council, and all the ancients of the children of Israel; and they sent to the prison to have them brought. 
    22: But when the ministers came, and opening the prison, found them not there, they returned and told, 
    23: Saying: The prison indeed we found shut with all diligence, and the keepers standing before the doors; but opening it, we found no man within. 
    24: Now when the officer of the temple and the chief priests heard these words, they were in doubt concerning them, what would come to pass. 
    25: But one came and told them: Behold, the men whom you put in prison are in the temple standing, and teaching the people.
    26: Then went the officer with the ministers, and brought them without violence; for they feared the people, lest they should be stoned. 
    27: And when they had brought them, they set them before the council. And the high priest asked them, 
    28: Saying: Commanding we commanded you, that you should not teach in this name; and behold, you have filled Jerusalem with your doctrine, and you have a mind to bring the blood of this man upon us. 
    29: But Peter and the apostles answering, said: We ought to obey God, rather than men. 
    30: The God of our fathers hath raised up Jesus, whom you put to death, hanging him upon a tree.
    31: Him hath God exalted with his right hand, to be Prince and Saviour, to give repentance to Israel, and remission of sins. 
    32: And we are witnesses of these things and the Holy Ghost, whom God hath given to all that obey him. 
    33: When they had heard these things, they were cut to the heart, and they thought to put them to death. 
    34: But one in the council rising up, a Pharisee, named Gamaliel, a doctor of the law, respected by all the people, commanded the men to be put forth a little while. 
    35: And he said to them: Ye men of Israel, take heed to yourselves what you intend to do, as touching these men.
    36: For before these days rose up Theodas, affirming himself to be somebody, to whom a number of men, about four hundred, joined themselves: who was slain; and all that believed him were scattered, and brought to nothing. 
    37: After this man, rose up Judas of Galilee, in the days of the enrolling, and drew away the people after him: he also perished; and all, even as many as consented to him, were dispersed. 
    38: And now, therefore, I say to you, refrain from these men, and let them alone; for if this council or this work be of men, it will come to nought; 
    39: But if it be of God, you cannot overthrow it, lest perhaps you be found even to fight against God. And they consented to him. 
    40: And calling in the apostles, after they had scourged them, they charged them that they should not speak at all in the name of Jesus; and they dismissed them.
    41: And they indeed went from the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were accounted worthy to suffer reproach for the name of Jesus. 
    42: And every day they ceased not in the temple, and from house to house, to teach and preach Christ Jesus.

  Chapter 6.

    1: And in those days, the number of the disciples increasing, there arose a murmuring of the Greeks against the Hebrews, for that their widows were neglected in the daily ministration. 
    2: Then the twelve calling together the multitude of the disciples, said: It is not reason that we should leave the word of God, and serve tables. 
    3: Wherefore, brethren, look ye out among you seven men of good reputation, full of the Holy Ghost and wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business. 
    4: But we will give ourselves continually to prayer, and to the ministry of the word. 
    5: And the saying was liked by all the multitude. And they chose Stephen, a man full of faith, and of the Holy Ghost, and Philip, and Prochorus, and Nicanor, and Timon, and Parmenas, and Nicolas, a proselyte of Antioch.
    6: These they set before the apostles; and they praying, imposed hands upon them. 
    7: And the word of the Lord increased; and the number of the disciples was multiplied in Jerusalem exceedingly: a great multitude also of the priests obeyed the faith. 
    8: And Stephen, full of grace and fortitude, did great wonders and signs among the people. 
    9: Now there arose some of that which is called the synagogue of the Libertines, and of the Cyrenians, and of the Alexandrians, and of them that were of Cilicia and Asia, disputing with Stephen. 
    10: And they were not able to resist the wisdom and the spirit that spoke.
    11: Then they suborned men to say, they had heard him speak words of blasphemy against Moses and against God. 
    12: And they stirred up the people, and the ancients, and the scribes; and running together, they took him, and brought him to the council. 
    13: And they set up false witnesses, who said: This man ceaseth not to speak words against the holy place and the law. 
    14: For we have heard him say, that this Jesus of Nazareth shall destroy this place, and shall change the traditions which Moses delivered unto us. 
    15: And all that sat in the council, looking on him, saw his face as if it had been the face of an angel.

  Chapter 7.

    1: Then the high priest said: Are these things so? 
    2: Who said: Ye men, brethren, and fathers, hear. The God of glory appeared to our father Abraham, when he was in Mesopotamia, before he dwelt in Charan. 
    3: And said to him: Go forth out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and come into the land which I shall shew thee. 
    4: Then he went out of the land of the Chaldeans, and dwelt in Charan. And from thence, after his father was dead, he removed him into this land, wherein you now dwell. 
    5: And he gave him no inheritance in it; no, not the pace of a foot: but he promised to give it him in possession, and to his seed after him, when as yet he had no child.
    6: And God said to him: That his seed should sojourn in a strange country, and that they should bring them under bondage, and treat them evil four hundred years. 
    7: And the nation which they shall serve will I judge, said the Lord; and after these things they shall go out, and shall serve me in this place. 
    8: And he gave him the covenant of circumcision, and so he begot Isaac, and circumcised him the eighth day; and Isaac begot Jacob; and Jacob the twelve patriarchs. 
    9: And the patriarchs, through envy, sold Joseph into Egypt; and God was with him, 
    10: And delivered him out of all his tribulations: and he gave him favour and wisdom in the sight of Pharao, the king of Egypt; and he appointed him governor over Egypt, and over all his house.
    11: Now there came a famine upon all Egypt and Chanaan, and great tribulation; and our fathers found no food. 
    12: But when Jacob had heard that there was corn in Egypt, he sent our fathers first: 
    13: And at the second time, Joseph was known by his brethren, and his kindred was made known to Pharao. 
    14: And Joseph sending, called thither Jacob, his father, and all his kindred, seventy-five souls. 
    15: So Jacob went down into Egypt; and he died, and our fathers.
    16: And they were translated into Sichem, and were laid in the sepulchre, that Abraham bought for a sum of money of the sons of Hemor, the son of Sichem. 
    17: And when the time of the promise drew near, which God had promised to Abraham, the people increased, and were multiplied in Egypt, 
    18: Till another king arose in Egypt, who knew not Joseph. 
    19: This same dealing craftily with our race, afflicted our fathers, that they should expose their children, to the end they might not be kept alive. 
    20: At the same time was Moses born, and he was acceptable to God: who was nourished three months in his father's house.
    21: And when he was exposed, Pharao's daughter took him up, and nourished him for her own son. 
    22: And Moses was instructed in all the wisdom of the Egyptians; and he was mighty in his words and in his deeds. 
    23: And when he was full forty years old, it came into his heart to visit his brethren, the children of Israel. 
    24: And when he had seen one of them suffer wrong, he defended him; and striking the Egyptian, he avenged him who suffered the injury. 
    25: And he thought that his brethren understood that God by his hand would save them; but they understood it not.
    26: And the day following, he shewed himself to them when they were at strife; and would have reconciled them in peace, saying: Men, ye are brethren; why hurt you one another? 
    27: But he that did the injury to his neighbour thrust him away, saying: Who hath appointed thee prince and judge over us? 
    28: What, wilt thou kill me, as thou didst yesterday kill the Egyptian? 
    29: And Moses fled upon this word, and was a stranger in the land of Madian, where he begot two sons. 
    30: And when forty years were expired, there appeared to him in the desert of mount Sina, an angel in a flame of fire in a bush.
    31: And Moses seeing it, wondered at the sight. And as he drew near to view it, the voice of the Lord came unto him, saying: 
    32: I am the God of thy fathers; the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. And Moses being terrified, durst not behold. 
    33: And the Lord said to him: Loose the shoes from thy feet, for the place wherein thou standest, is holy ground. 
    34: Seeing I have seen the affliction of my people which is in Egypt, and I have heard their groaning, and am come down to deliver them. And now come, and I will send thee into Egypt. 
    35: This Moses, whom they refused, saying: Who hath appointed thee prince and judge? him God sent to be prince and redeemer by the hand of the angel who appeared to him in the bush.
    36: He brought them out, doing wonders and signs in the land of Egypt, and in the Red Sea, and in the desert forty years. 
    37: This is that Moses who said to the children of Israel: A prophet shall God raise up to you of your own brethren, as myself: him shall you hear. 
    38: This is he that was in the church in the wilderness, with the angel who spoke to him on mount Sina, and with our fathers; who received the words of life to give unto us. 
    39: Whom our fathers would not obey; but thrust him away, and in their hearts turned back into Egypt, 
    40: Saying to Aaron: Make us gods to go before us. For as for this Moses, who brought us out of the land of Egypt, we know not what is become of him.
    41: And they made a calf in those days, and offered sacrifices to the idol, and rejoiced in the works of their own hands. 
    42: And God turned, and gave them up to serve the host of heaven, as it is written in the books of the prophets: Did you offer victims and sacrifices to me for forty years, in the desert, O house of Israel? 
    43: And you took unto you the tabernacle of Moloch, and the star of your god Rempham, figures which you made to adore them. And I will carry you away beyond Babylon. 
    44: The tabernacle of the testimony was with our fathers in the desert, as God ordained for them, speaking to Moses, that he should make it according to the form which he had seen. 
    45: Which also our fathers receiving, brought in with Jesus, into the possession of the Gentiles, whom God drove out before the face of our fathers, unto the days of David.
    46: Who found grace before God, and desired to find a tabernacle for the God of Jacob. 
    47: But Solomon built him a house. 
    48: Yet the most High dwelleth not in houses made by hands, as the prophet saith: 
    49: Heaven is my throne, and the earth my footstool. What house will you build me? saith the Lord; or what is the place of my resting? 
    50: Hath not my hand made all these things?
    51: You stiffnecked and uncircumcised in heart and ears, you always resist the Holy Ghost: as your fathers did, so do you also. 
    52: Which of the prophets have not your fathers persecuted? And they have slain them who foretold of the coming of the Just One; of whom you have been now the betrayers and murderers: 
    53: Who have received the law by the disposition of angels, and have not kept it. 
    54: Now hearing these things, they were cut to the heart, and they gnashed with their teeth at him. 
    55: But he, being full of the Holy Ghost, looking up steadfastly to heaven, saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing on the right hand of God. And he said: Behold, I see the heavens opened, and the Son of man standing on the right hand of God.
    56: And they crying out with a loud voice, stopped their ears, and with one accord ran violently upon him. 
    57: And casting him forth without the city, they stoned him; and the witnesses laid down their garments at the feet of a young man, whose name was Saul. 
    58: And they stoned Stephen, invoking, and saying: Lord Jesus, receive my spirit. 
    59: And falling on his knees, he cried with a loud voice, saying: Lord, lay not this sin to their charge. And when he had said this, he fell asleep in the Lord. And Saul was consenting to his death.

  Chapter 8.

    1: And at that time there was raised a great persecution against the church which was at Jerusalem; and they were all dispersed through the countries of Judea, and Samaria, except the apostles. 
    2: And devout men took order for Stephen's funeral, and made great mourning over him. 
    3: But Saul made havock of the church, entering in from house to house, and dragging away men and women, committed them to prison. 
    4: They therefore that were dispersed, went about preaching the word of God. 
    5: And Philip going down to the city of Samaria, preached Christ unto them.
    6: And the people with one accord were attentive to those things which were said by Philip, hearing, and seeing the miracles which he did. 
    7: For many of them who had unclean spirits, crying with a loud voice, went out. 
    8: And many, taken with the palsy, and that were lame, were healed. 
    9: There was therefore great joy in that city. Now there was a certain man named Simon, who before had been a magician in that city, seducing the people of Samaria, giving out that he was some great one: 
    10: To whom they all gave ear, from the least to the greatest, saying: This man is the power of God, which is called great.
    11: And they were attentive to him, because, for a long time, he had bewitched them with his magical practices. 
    12: But when they had believed Philip preaching of the kingdom of God, in the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both men and women. 
    13: Then Simon himself believed also; and being baptized, he adhered to Philip. And being astonished, wondered to see the signs and exceeding great miracles which were done. 
    14: Now when the apostles, who were in Jerusalem, had heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent unto them Peter and John. 
    15: Who, when they were come, prayed for them, that they might receive the Holy Ghost.
    16: For he was not as yet come upon any of them; but they were only baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. 
    17: Then they laid their hands upon them, and they received the Holy Ghost. 
    18: And when Simon saw, that by the imposition of the hands of the apostles, the Holy Ghost was given, he offered them money, 
    19: Saying: Give me also this power, that on whomsoever I shall lay my hands, he may receive the Holy Ghost. But Peter said to him: 
    20: Keep thy money to thyself, to perish with thee, because thou hast thought that the gift of God may be purchased with money.
    21: Thou hast no part nor lot in this matter. For thy heart is not right in the sight of God. 
    22: Do penance therefore for this thy wickedness; and pray to God, that perhaps this thought of thy heart may be forgiven thee. 
    23: For I see thou art in the gall of bitterness, and in the bonds of iniquity. 
    24: Then Simon answering, said: Pray you for me to the Lord, that none of these things which you have spoken may come upon me. 
    25: And they indeed having testified and preached the word of the Lord, returned to Jerusalem, and preached the gospel to many countries of the Samaritans.
    26: Now an angel of the Lord spoke to Philip, saying: Arise, go towards the south, to the way that goeth down from Jerusalem into Gaza: this is desert. 
    27: And rising up, he went. And behold a man of Ethiopia, an eunuch, of great authority under Candace the queen of the Ethiopians, who had charge over all her treasures, had come to Jerusalem to adore. 
    28: And he was returning, sitting in his chariot, and reading Isaias the prophet. 
    29: And the Spirit said to Philip: Go near, and join thyself to this chariot. 
    30: And Philip running thither, heard him reading the prophet Isaias. And he said: Thinkest thou that thou understandest what thou readest?
    31: Who said: And how can I, unless some man shew me? And he desired Philip that he would come up and sit with him. 
    32: And the place of the scripture which he was reading was this: He was led as a sheep to the slaughter; and like a lamb without voice before his shearer, so openeth he not his mouth. 
    33: In humility his judgment was taken away. His generation who shall declare, for his life shall be taken from the earth? 
    34: And the eunuch answering Philip, said: I beseech thee, of whom doth the prophet speak this? of himself, or of some other man? 
    35: Then Philip, opening his mouth, and beginning at this scripture, preached unto him Jesus.
    36: And as they went on their way, they came to a certain water; and the eunuch said: See, here is water: what doth hinder me from being baptized? 
    37: And Philip said: If thou believest with all thy heart, thou mayest. And he answering, said: I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. 
    38: And he commanded the chariot to stand still; and they went down into the water, both Philip and the eunuch: and he baptized him. 
    39: And when they were come up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord took away Philip; and the eunuch saw him no more. And he went on his way rejoicing. 
    40: But Philip was found in Azotus; and passing through, he preached the gospel to all the cities, till he came to Caesarea.

End of day 308.