Day 247:

Reading Ezekiel, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: Now it came to pass in the thirtieth year, in the fourth month, on the fifth day of the month, when I was in the midst of the captives by the river Chobar, the heavens were opened, and I saw the visions of God. 
    2: On the fifth day of the month, the same was the fifth year of the captivity of king Joachin, 
    3: The word of the Lord came to Ezechiel the priest the son of Buzi in the land of the Chaldeans, by the river Chobar: and the hand of the Lord was there upon him. 
    4: And I saw, and behold a whirlwind came out of the north: and a great cloud, and a fire infolding it, and brightness was about it: and out of the midst thereof, that is, out of the midst of the fire, as it were the resemblance of amber: 
    5: And in the midst thereof the likeness of four living creatures: and this was their appearance: there was the likeness of a man in them.
    6: Every one had four faces, and every one four wings. 
    7: Their feet were straight feet, and the sole of their foot was like the sole of a calf's foot, and they sparkled like the appearance of glowing brass. 
    8: And they had the hands of a man under their wings on their four sides: and they had faces, and wings on the four sides, 
    9: And the wings of one were joined to the wings of another. They turned not when they went: but every one went straight forward. 
    10: And as for the likeness of their faces: there was the face of a man, and the face of a lion on the right side of all the four: and the face of an ox, on the left side of all the four: and the face of an eagle over all the four.
    11: And their faces, and their wings were stretched upward: two wings of every one were joined, and two covered their bodies: 
    12: And every one of them went straight forward: whither the impulse of the spirit was to go, thither they went: and they turned not when they went. 
    13: And as for the likeness of the living creatures, their appearance was like that of burning coals of fire, and like the appearance of lamps. This was the vision running to and fro in the midst of the living creatures, a bright fire, and lightning going forth from the fire. 
    14: And the living creatures ran and returned like flashes of lightning. 
    15: Now as I beheld the living creatures, there appeared upon the earth by the living creatures one wheel with four faces.
    16: And the appearance of the wheels, and the work of them was like the appearance of the sea: and the four had all one likeness: and their appearance and their work was as it were a wheel in the midst of a wheel. 
    17: When they went, they went by their four parts: and they turned not when they went. 
    18: The wheels had also a size, and a height, and a dreadful appearance: and the whole body was full of eyes round about all the four. 
    19: And when the living creatures went, the wheels also went together by them: and when the living creatures were lifted up from the earth, the wheels also were lifted up with them. 
    20: Whithersoever the spirit went, thither as the spirit went the wheels also were lifted up withal, and followed it: for the spirit of life was in the wheels.
    21: When those went these went, and when those stood these stood, and when those were lifted up from the earth, the wheels also were lifted up together, and followed them: for the spirit of life was in the wheels. 
    22: And over the heads of the living creatures was the likeness of the firmament, as the appearance of crystal terrible to behold, and stretched out over their heads above. 
    23: And under the firmament were their wings straight, the one toward the other, every one with two wings covered his body, and the other was covered in like manner. 
    24: And I heard the noise of their wings, like the noise of many waters, as it were the voice of the most high God: when they walked, it was like the voice of a multitude, like the noise of an army, and when they stood, their wings were let down. 
    25: For when a voice came from above the firmament, that was over their heads, they stood, and let down their wings.
    26: And above the firmament that was over their heads, was the likeness of a throne, as the appearance of the sapphire stone, and upon the likeness of the throne, was a likeness as of the appearance of a man above upon it. 
    27: And I saw as it were the resemblance of amber as the appearance of fire within it round about: from his loins and upward, and from his loins downward, I saw as it were the resemblance of fire shining round about. 
    28: As the appearance of the rainbow when it is in a cloud on a rainy day: this was the appearance of the brightness round about.

  Chapter 2.

    1: This was the vision of the likeness of the glory of the Lord. And I saw, and I fell upon my face, and I heard the voice of one that spoke. And he said to me: Son of man, stand upon thy feet, and I will speak to thee. 
    2: And the spirit entered into me after that he spoke to me, and he set me upon my feet: and I heard him speaking to me, 
    3: And saying: Son of man, I send thee to the children of Israel, to a rebellious people, that hath revolted from me, they, and their fathers, have transgressed my covenant even unto this day. 
    4: And they to whom I send thee are children of a hard face, and of an obstinate heart: and thou shalt say to them: Thus saith the Lord God: 
    5: If so be they at least will hear, and if so be they will forbear, for they are a provoking house: and they shall know that there hath been a prophet in the midst of them.
    6: And thou, O son of man, fear not, neither be thou afraid of their words: for thou art among unbelievers and destroyers, and thou dwellest with scorpions. Fear not their words, neither be thou dismayed at their looks: for they are a provoking house. 
    7: And thou shalt speak my words to them, if perhaps they will hear, and forbear: for they provoke me to anger. 
    8: But thou, O son of man, hear all that I say to thee: and do not thou provoke me, as that house provoketh me: open thy mouth, and eat what I give thee. 
    9: And I looked, and behold, a hand was sent to me, wherein was a book rolled up: and he spread it before me, and it was written within and without: and there were written in it lamentations, and canticles, and woe.

  Chapter 3.

    1: And he said to me: Son of man, eat all that thou shalt find: eat this book, and go speak to the children of Israel. 
    2: And I opened my mouth, and he caused me to eat that book: 
    3: And he said to me: Son of man, thy belly shall eat, and thy bowels shall be filled with this book, which I give thee. And I did eat it: and it was sweet as honey in my mouth. 
    4: And he said to me: Son of man, go to the house of Israel, and thou shalt speak my words to them. 
    5: For thou art not sent to a people of a profound speech, and of an unknown tongue, but to the house of Israel:
    6: Nor to many nations of a strange speech, and of an unknown tongue, whose words thou canst not understand: and if thou wert sent to them, they would hearken to thee. 
    7: But the house of Israel will not hearken to thee: because they will not hearken to me: for all the house of Israel are of a hard forehead and an obstinate heart. 
    8: Behold I have made thy face stronger than their faces: and thy forehead harder than their foreheads. 
    9: I have made thy face like an adamant and like flint: fear them not, neither be thou dismayed at their presence: for they are a provoking house. 
    10: And he said to me: Son of man, receive in thy heart, and hear with thy ears, all the words that I speak to thee:
    11: And go get thee in to them of the captivity, to the children of thy people, and thou shalt speak to them, and shalt say to them: Thus saith the Lord: If so be they will hear and will forbear. 
    12: And the spirit took me up, and I heard behind me the voice of a great commotion, saying: Blessed be the glory of the Lord, from his place. 
    13: And the noise of the wings of the living creatures striking one against another, and the noise of the wheels following the living creatures, and the noise of a great commotion. 
    14: The spirit also lifted me, and took me up: and I went away in bitterness in the indignation of my spirit: for the hand of the Lord was with me, strengthening me. 
    15: And I came to them of the captivity, to the heap of new corn, to them that dwelt by the river Chobar, and I sat where they sat: and I remained there seven days mourning in the midst of them.
    16: And at the end of seven days the word of the Lord came to me, saying: 
    17: Son of man, I have made thee a watchman to the house of Israel: and thou shalt hear the word out of my mouth, and shalt tell it them from me. 
    18: If, when I say to the wicked, Thou shalt surely die: thou declare it not to him, nor speak to him, that he may be converted from his wicked way, and live: the same wicked man shall die in his iniquity, but I will require his blood at thy hand. 
    19: But if thou give warning to the wicked, and he be not converted from his wickedness, and from his evil way: he indeed shall die in his iniquity, but thou hast delivered thy soul. 
    20: Moreover if the just man shall turn away from his justice, and shall commit iniquity: I will lay a stumblingblock before him, he shall die, because thou hast not given him warning: he shall die in his sin, and his justices which he hath done, shall not be remembered: but I will require his blood at thy hand.
    21: But if thou warn the just man, that the just may not sin, and he doth not sin: living he shall live, because thou hast warned him, and thou hast delivered thy soul. 
    22: And the hand of the Lord was upon me, and he said to me: Rise and go forth into the plain, and there I will speak to thee. 
    23: And I rose up, and went forth into the plain: and behold the glory of the Lord stood there, like the glory which I saw by the river Chobar: and I fell upon my face. 
    24: And the spirit entered into me, and set me upon my feet: and he spoke to me, and said to me: Go in; and shut thyself up in the midst of thy house. 
    25: And thou, O son of man, behold they shall put bands upon thee, and they shall bind thee with them: and thou shalt not go forth from the midst of them.
    26: And I will make thy tongue stick fast to the roof of thy mouth, and thou shalt be dumb, and not as a man that reproveth: because they are a provoking house. 
    27: But when I shall speak to thee, I will open thy mouth, and thou shalt say to them: Thus saith the Lord God: He that heareth, let him hear: and he that forbeareth, let him forbear: for they are a provoking house.

  Chapter 4.

    1: And thou, O son of man, take thee a tile, and lay it before thee: and draw upon it the plan of the city of Jerusalem. 
    2: And lay siege against it, and build forts, and cast up a mount, and set a camp against it, and place battering rams round about it. 
    3: And take unto thee an iron pan, and set it for a wall of iron between thee and the city: and set thy face resolutely against it, and it shall be besieged, and thou shalt lay siege against it: it is a sign to the house of Israel. 
    4: And thou shalt sleep upon thy left side, and shalt lay the iniquities of the house of Israel upon it, according to the number of the days that thou shalt sleep upon it, and thou shalt take upon thee their iniquity. 
    5: And I have laid upon thee the years of their iniquity, according to the number of the days three hundred and ninety days: and thou shalt bear the iniquity of the house of Israel.
    6: And when thou hast accomplished this, thou shalt sleep again upon thy right side, and thou shalt take upon thee the iniquity of the house of Juda forty days: a day for a year, yea, a day for a year I have appointed to thee. 
    7: And thou shalt turn thy face to the siege of Jerusalem, and thy arm shall be stretched out: and thou shalt prophesy against it. 
    8: Behold I have encompassed thee with bands: and thou shalt not turn thyself from one side to the other, till thou hast ended the days of thy siege. 
    9: And take to thee wheat and barley, and beans, and lentils, and millet, and fitches, and put them in one vessel, and make thee bread thereof according to the number of the days that thou shalt lie upon thy side: three hundred and ninety days shalt thou eat thereof. 
    10: And thy meat that thou shalt eat, shall be in weight twenty staters a day: from time to time thou shalt eat it.
    11: And thou shalt drink water by measure, the sixth part of a hin: from time to time thou shalt drink it, 
    12: And thou shalt eat it as barley bread baked under the ashes: and thou shalt cover it, in their sight, with the dung that cometh out of a man. 
    13: And the Lord said: So shall the children of Israel eat their bread all filthy among the nations whither I will cast them out. 
    14: And I said: Ah, ah, ah, O Lord God, behold my soul hath not been defiled, and from my infancy even till now, I have not eaten any thing that died of itself, or was torn by beasts, and no unclean flesh hath entered into my mouth. 
    15: And he said to me: Behold I have given thee neat's dung for man's dung, and thou shalt make thy bread therewith.
    16: And he said to me: Son of man: Behold, I will break in pieces the staff of bread in Jerusalem: and they shall eat bread by weight, and with care: and they shall drink water by measure, and in distress. 
    17: So that when bread and water fail, every man may fall against his brother, and they may pine away in their iniquities.

End of day 247.