Day 313:

Reading Acts, chapters ['25', '26', '27', '28']:

  Chapter 25.

    1: Now when Festus was come into the province, after three days, he went up to Jerusalem from Caesarea. 
    2: And the chief priests, and principal men of the Jews, went unto him against Paul: and they besought him, 
    3: Requesting favour against him, that he would command him to be brought to Jerusalem, laying wait to kill him in the way. 
    4: But Festus answered: That Paul was kept in Caesarea, and that he himself would very shortly depart thither. 
    5: Let them, therefore, saith he, among you that are able, go down with me, and accuse him, if there be any crime in the man.
    6: And having tarried among them no more than eight or ten days, he went down to Caesarea, and the next day he sat in the judgment seat; and commanded Paul to be brought. 
    7: Who being brought, the Jews stood about him, who were come down from Jerusalem, objecting many and grievous causes, which they could not prove; 
    8: Paul making answer for himself: Neither against the law of the Jews, nor against the temple, nor against Caesar, have I offended in any thing. 
    9: But Festus, willing to shew the Jews a pleasure, answering Paul, said: Wilt thou go up to Jerusalem, and there be judged of these things before me? 
    10: Then Paul said: I stand at Caesar's judgment seat, where I ought to be judged. To the Jews I have done no injury, as thou very well knowest.
    11: For if I have injured them, or have committed any thing worthy of death, I refuse not to die. But if there be none of these things whereof they accuse me, no man may deliver me to them: I appeal to Caesar. 
    12: Then Festus having conferred with the council, answered: Hast thou appealed to Caesar? To Caesar shalt thou go. 
    13: And after some days, king Agrippa and Bernice came down to Caesarea to salute Festus. 
    14: And as they tarried there many days, Festus told the king of Paul, saying: A certain man was left prisoner by Felix. 
    15: About whom, when I was at Jerusalem, the chief priests, and the ancients of the Jews, came unto me, desiring condemnation against him.
    16: To whom I answered: It is not the custom of the Romans to condemn any man, before that he who is accused have his accusers present, and have liberty to make his answer, to clear himself of the things laid to his charge. 
    17: When therefore they were come hither, without any delay, on the day following, sitting in the judgment seat, I commanded the man to be brought. 
    18: Against whom, when the accusers stood up, they brought no accusation of things which I thought ill of: 
    19: But had certain questions of their own superstition against him, and of one Jesus deceased, whom Paul affirmed to be alive. 
    20: I therefore being in a doubt of this manner of question, asked him whether he would go to Jerusalem, and there be judged of these things.
    21: But Paul appealing to be reserved unto the hearing of Augustus, I commanded him to be kept, till I might send him to Caesar. 
    22: And Agrippa said to Festus: I would also hear the man, myself. Tomorrow, said he, thou shalt hear him. 
    23: And on the next day, when Agrippa and Bernice were come with great pomp, and had entered into the hall of audience, with the tribunes, and principal men of the city, at Festus' commandment, Paul was brought forth. 
    24: And Festus saith: King Agrippa, and all ye men who are here present with us, you see this man, about whom all the multitude of the Jews dealt with me at Jerusalem, requesting and crying out that he ought not to live any longer. 
    25: Yet have I found nothing that he hath committed worthy of death. But forasmuch as he himself hath appealed to Augustus, I have determined to send him.
    26: Of whom I have nothing certain to write to my lord. For which cause I have brought him forth before you, and especially before thee, O king Agrippa, that examination being made, I may have what to write. 
    27: For it seemeth to me unreasonable to send a prisoner, and not to signify the things laid to his charge.

  Chapter 26.

    1: Then Agrippa said to Paul: Thou art permitted to speak for thyself. Then Paul stretching forth his hand, began to make his answer. 
    2: I think myself happy, O king Agrippa, that I am to answer for myself this day before thee, touching all the things whereof I am accused by the Jews. 
    3: Especially as thou knowest all, both customs and questions that are among the Jews: Wherefore I beseech thee to hear me patiently. 
    4: And my life indeed from my youth, which was from the beginning among my own nation in Jerusalem, all the Jews do know: 
    5: Having known me from the beginning (if they will give testimony) that according to the most sure sect of our religion I lived a Pharisee.
    6: And now for the hope of the promise that was made by God to the fathers, do I stand subject to judgment: 
    7: Unto which, our twelve tribes, serving night and day, hope to come. For which hope, O king, I am accused by the Jews. 
    8: Why should it be thought a thing incredible, that God should raise the dead? 
    9: And I indeed did formerly think, that I ought to do many things contrary to the name of Jesus of Nazareth. 
    10: Which also I did at Jerusalem, and many of the saints did I shut up in prison, having received authority of the chief priests: and when they were put to death, I brought the sentence.
    11: And oftentimes punishing them, in every synagogue, I compelled them to blaspheme: and being yet more mad against them, I persecuted them even unto foreign cities. 
    12: Whereupon when I was going to Damascus with authority and permission of the chief priest, 
    13: At midday, O king, I saw in the way a light from heaven above the brightness of the sun, shining round about me, and them that were in company with me. 
    14: And when we were all fallen down on the ground, I heard a voice speaking to me in the Hebrew tongue: Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? It is hard for thee to kick against the goad. 
    15: And I said: Who art thou, Lord? And the Lord answered: I am Jesus whom thou persecutest.
    16: But rise up, and stand upon thy feet: for to this end have I appeared to thee, that I may make thee a minister, and a witness of those things which thou hast seen, and of those things wherein I will appear to thee, 
    17: Delivering thee from the people, and from the nations, unto which now I send thee: 
    18: To open their eyes, that they may be converted from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins, and a lot among the saints, by the faith that is in me. 
    19: Whereupon, O king Agrippa, I was not incredulous to the heavenly vision: 
    20: But to them first that are at Damascus, and at Jerusalem, and unto all the country of Judea, and to the Gentiles did I preach, that they should do penance, and turn to God, doing works worthy of penance.
    21: For this cause the Jews, when I was in the temple, having apprehended me, went about to kill me. 
    22: But being aided by the help of God, I stand unto this day, witnessing both to small and great, saying no other thing than those which the prophets, and Moses did say should come to pass: 
    23: That Christ should suffer, and that he should be the first that should rise from the dead, and should shew light to the people, and to the Gentiles. 
    24: As he spoke these things, and made his answer, Festus said with a loud voice: Paul, thou art beside thyself: much learning doth make thee mad. 
    25: And Paul said: I am not mad, most excellent Festus, but I speak words of truth and soberness.
    26: For the king knoweth of these things, to whom also I speak with confidence. For I am persuaded that none of these things are hidden from him. For neither was any of these things done in a corner. 
    27: Believest thou the prophets, O king Agrippa? I know that thou believest. 
    28: And Agrippa said to Paul: In a little thou persuadest me to become a Christian. 
    29: And Paul said: I would to God, that both in a little and in much, not only thou, but also all that hear me, this day, should become such as I also am, except these bands. 
    30: And the king rose up, and the governor, and Bernice, and they that sat with them.
    31: And when they were gone aside, they spoke among themselves, saying: This man hath done nothing worthy of death or of bands. 
    32: And Agrippa said to Festus: This man might have been set at liberty, if he had not appealed to Caesar.

  Chapter 27.

    1: And when it was determined that he should sail into Italy, and that Paul, with the other prisoners, should be delivered to a centurion, named Julius, of the band Augusta, 
    2: Going on board a ship of Adrumetum, we launched, meaning to sail by the coasts of Asia, Aristarchus, the Macedonian of Thessalonica, continuing with us. 
    3: And the day following we came to Sidon. And Julius treating Paul courteously, permitted him to go to his friends, and to take care of himself. 
    4: And when we had launched from thence, we sailed under Cyprus, because the winds were contrary. 
    5: And sailing over the sea of Cilicia, and Pamphylia, we came to Lystra, which is in Lycia:
    6: And there the centurion finding a ship of Alexandria sailing into Italy, removed us into it. 
    7: And when for many days we had sailed slowly, and were scarce come over against Gnidus, the wind not suffering us, we sailed near Crete by Salmone: 
    8: And with much ado sailing by it, we came into a certain place, which is called Good-havens, nigh to which was the city of Thalassa. 
    9: And when much time was spent, and when sailing now was dangerous, because the fast was now past, Paul comforted them, 
    10: Saying to them: Ye men, I see that the voyage beginneth to be with injury and much damage, not only of the lading and ship, but also of our lives.
    11: But the centurion believed the pilot and the master of the ship, more than those things which were said by Paul. 
    12: And whereas it was not a commodious haven to winter in, the greatest part gave counsel to sail thence, if by any means they might reach Phenice to winter there, which is a haven of Crete, looking towards the southwest and northwest. 
    13: And the south wind gently blowing, thinking that they had obtained their purpose, when they had loosed from Asson, they sailed close by Crete. 
    14: But not long after, there arose against it a tempestuous wind, called Euroaquilo. 
    15: And when the ship was caught, and could not bear up against the wind, giving up the ship to the winds, we were driven.
    16: And running under a certain island, that is called Cauda, we had much work to come by the boat. 
    17: Which being taken up, they used helps, undergirding the ship, and fearing lest they should fall into the quicksands, they let down the sail yard, and so were driven. 
    18: And we being mightily tossed with the tempest, the next day they lightened the ship. 
    19: And the third day they cast out with their own hands the tackling of the ship. 
    20: And when neither sun nor stars appeared for many days, and no small storm lay on us, all hope of our being saved was now taken away.
    21: And after they had fasted a long time, Paul standing forth in the midst of them, said: You should indeed, O ye men, have hearkened unto me, and not have loosed from Crete, and have gained this harm and loss. 
    22: And now I exhort you to be of good cheer. For there shall be no loss of any man's life among you, but only of the ship. 
    23: For an angel of God, whose I am, and whom I serve, stood by me this night, 
    24: Saying: Fear not, Paul, thou must be brought before Caesar; and behold, God hath given thee all them that sail with thee. 
    25: Wherefore, sirs, be of good cheer; for I believe God that it shall so be, as it hath been told me.
    26: And we must come unto a certain island. 
    27: But after the fourteenth night was come, as we were sailing in Adria, about midnight, the shipmen deemed that they discovered some country. 
    28: Who also sounding, found twenty fathoms; and going on a little further, they found fifteen fathoms. 
    29: Then fearing lest we should fall upon rough places, they cast four anchors out of the stern, and wished for the day. 
    30: But as the shipmen sought to fly out of the ship, having let down the boat into the sea, under colour, as though they would have cast anchors out of the forepart of the ship,
    31: Paul said to the centurion, and to the soldiers: Except these stay in the ship, you cannot be saved. 
    32: Then the soldiers cut off the ropes of the boat, and let her fall off. 
    33: And when it began to be light, Paul besought them all to take meat, saying: This day is the fourteenth day that you have waited, and continued fasting, taking nothing. 
    34: Wherefore I pray you to take some meat for your health's sake; for there shall not an hair of the head of any of you perish. 
    35: And when he had said these things, taking bread, he gave thanks to God in the sight of them all; and when he had broken it, he began to eat.
    36: Then were they all of better cheer, and they also took some meat. 
    37: And we were in all in the ship, two hundred threescore and sixteen souls. 
    38: And when they had eaten enough, they lightened the ship, casting the wheat into the sea. 
    39: And when it was day, they knew not the land; but they discovered a certain creek that had a shore, into which they minded, if they could, to thrust in the ship. 
    40: And when they had taken up the anchors, they committed themselves to the sea, loosing withal the rudder bands; and hoisting up the mainsail to the wind, they made towards shore.
    41: And when we were fallen into a place where two seas met, they run the ship aground; and the forepart indeed, sticking fast, remained unmoveable: but the hinder part was broken with the violence of the sea. 
    42: And the soldiers' counsel was, that they should kill the prisoners, lest any of them, swimming out, should escape. 
    43: But the centurion, willing to save Paul, forbade it to be done; and he commanded that they who could swim, should cast themselves first into the sea, and save themselves, and get to land. 
    44: And the rest, some they carried on boards, and some on those things that belonged to the ship. And so it came to pass, that every soul got safe to land.

  Chapter 28.

    1: And when we had escaped, then we knew that the island was called Melita. But the barbarians shewed us no small courtesy. 
    2: For kindling a fire, they refreshed us all, because of the present rain, and of the cold. 
    3: And when Paul had gathered together a bundle of sticks, and had laid them on the fire, a viper coming out of the heat, fastened on his hand. 
    4: And when the barbarians saw the beast hanging on his hand, they said one to another: Undoubtedly this man is a murderer, who though he hath escaped the sea, yet vengeance doth not suffer him to live. 
    5: And he indeed shaking off the beast into the fire, suffered no harm.
    6: But they supposed that he would begin to swell up, and that he would suddenly fall down and die. But expecting long, and seeing that there came no harm to him, changing their minds, they said, that he was a god. 
    7: Now in these places were possessions of the chief man of the island, named Publius, who receiving us, for three days entertained us courteously. 
    8: And it happened that the father of Publius lay sick of a fever, and of a bloody flux. To whom Paul entered in; and when he had prayed, and laid his hands on him, he healed him. 
    9: Which being done, all that had diseases in the island, came and were healed: 
    10: Who also honoured us with many honours, and when we were to set sail, they laded us with such things as were necessary.
    11: And after three months, we sailed in a ship of Alexandria, that had wintered in the island, whose sign was the Castors. 
    12: And when we were come to Syracusa, we tarried there three days. 
    13: From thence, compassing by the shore, we came to Rhegium: and after one day, the south wind blowing, we came the second day to Puteoli; 
    14: Where, finding brethren, we were desired to tarry with them seven days: and so we went to Rome. 
    15: And from thence, when the brethren had heard of us, they came to meet us as far as Appii Forum, and the Three Taverns: whom when Paul saw, he gave thanks to God, and took courage.
    16: And when we were come to Rome, Paul was suffered to dwell by himself, with a soldier that kept him. 
    17: And after the third day, he called together the chief of the Jews. And when they were assembled, he said to them: Men, brethren, I, having done nothing against the people, or the custom of our fathers, was delivered prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans; 
    18: Who, when they had examined me, would have released me, for that there was no cause of death in me; 
    19: But the Jews contradicting it, I was constrained to appeal unto Caesar; not that I had any thing to accuse my nation of. 
    20: For this cause therefore I desired to see you, and to speak to you. Because that for the hope of Israel, I am bound with this chain.
    21: But they said to him: We neither received letters concerning thee from Judea, neither did any of the brethren that came hither, relate or speak any evil of thee. 
    22: But we desire to hear of thee what thou thinkest; for as concerning this sect, we know that it is everywhere contradicted. 
    23: And when they had appointed him a day, there came very many to him unto his lodgings; to whom he expounded, testifying the kingdom of God, and persuading them concerning Jesus, out of the law of Moses and the prophets, from morning until evening. 
    24: And some believed the things that were said; but some believed not. 
    25: And when they agreed not among themselves, they departed, Paul speaking this one word: Well did the Holy Ghost speak to our fathers by Isaias the prophet,
    26: Saying: Go to this people, and say to them: With the ear you shall hear, and shall not understand; and seeing you shall see, and shall not perceive. 
    27: For the heart of this people is grown gross, and with their ears have they heard heavily, and their eyes they have shut; lest perhaps they should see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and should be converted, and I should heal them. 
    28: Be it known therefore to you, that this salvation of God is sent to the Gentiles, and they will hear it. 
    29: And when he had said these things, the Jews went out from him, having much reasoning among themselves. 
    30: And he remained two whole years in his own hired lodging; and he received all that came in to him,
    31: Preaching the kingdom of God, and teaching the things which concern the Lord Jesus Christ, with all confidence, without prohibition.

End of day 313.