Day 249:

Reading Ezekiel, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: And he cried in my ears with a loud voice, saying: The visitations of the city are at hand, and every one hath a destroying weapon in his hand. 
    2: And behold six men came from the way of the upper gate, which looketh to the north: and each one had his weapon of destruction in his hand: and there was one man in the midst of them clothed with linen, with a writer's inkhorn at his reins: and they went in, and stood by the brazen altar. 
    3: And the glory of the Lord of Israel went up from the cherub, upon which he was, to the threshold of the house: and he called to the man that was clothed with linen, and had a writer's inkhorn at his loins. 
    4: And the Lord said to him: Go through the midst of the city, through the midst of Jerusalem: and mark Thau upon the foreheads of the men that sigh, and mourn for all the abominations that are committed in the midst thereof. 
    5: And to the others he said in my hearing: Go ye after him through the city, and strike: let not your eyes spare, nor be ye moved with pity.
    6: Utterly destroy old and young, maidens, children and women: but upon whomsoever you shall see Thau, kill him not, and begin ye at my sanctuary. So they began at the ancient men who were before the house. 
    7: And he said to them: Defile the house, and ill the courts with the slain: go ye forth. And they went forth, and slew them that were in the city. 
    8: And the slaughter being ended I was left: and I fell upon my face, and crying, I said: Alas, alas, alas, O Lord God, wilt thou then destroy all the remnant of Israel, by pouring out thy fury upon Jerusalem? 
    9: And he said to me: The iniquity of the house of Israel, and of Juda, is exceeding great, and the land is filled with blood, and the city is filled with perverseness: for they have said: The Lord hath forsaken the earth, and the Lord seeth not. 
    10: Therefore neither shall my eye spare, nor will I have pity: I will requite their way upon their head.
    11: And behold the man that was clothed with linen, that had the inkhorn at his back, returned the word, saying: I have done as thou hast commanded me.

  Chapter 10.

    1: And I saw and behold in the firmament that was over the heads of the cherubims, there appeared over them as it were the sapphire stone, as the appearance of the likeness of a throne. 
    2: And he spoke to the man, that was clothed with linen, and said: Go in between the wheels that are under the cherubims and fill thy hand with the coals of fire that are between the cherubims, and pour them out upon the city. And he went in, in my sight: 
    3: And the cherubims stood on the right side of the house, when the man went in, and a cloud filled the inner court. 
    4: And the glory of the Lord was lifted up from above the cherub to the threshold of the house: and the house was filled with the cloud, and the court was filled with the brightness of the glory of the Lord. 
    5: And the sound of the wings of the cherubims was heard even to the outward court as the voice of God Almighty speaking.
    6: And when he had commanded the man that was clothed with linen, saying: Take fire from the midst of the wheels that are between the cherubims: he went in and stood beside the wheel. 
    7: And one cherub stretched out his arm from the midst of the cherubims to the fire that was between the cherubims: and he took, and put it into the hands of him that was clothed with linen: who took it and went forth. 
    8: And there appeared in the cherubims the likeness of a man's hand under their wings. 
    9: And I saw, and behold there were four wheels by the cherubims: one wheel by one cherub, and another wheel by another cherub: and the appearance of the wheels was to the sight like the chrysolite stone: 
    10: And as to their appearance, all four were alike: as if a wheel were in the midst of a wheel.
    11: And when they went, they went by four ways: and they turned not when they went: but to the place whither they first turned, the rest also followed, and did not turn back. 
    12: And their whole body, and their necks, and their hands, and their wings, and the circles were full of eyes, round about the four wheels. 
    13: And these wheels he called voluble, in my hearing. 
    14: And every one had four faces: one face was the face of a cherub, and the second face, the face of a man: and in the third was the face of a lion: and in the fourth the face of an eagle. 
    15: And the cherubims were lifted up: this is the living creature that I had seen by the river Chobar.
    16: And when the cherubims went, the wheels also went by them: and when the cherubims lifted up their wings, to mount up from the earth, the wheels stayed not behind, but were by them. 
    17: When they stood, these stood: and when they were lifted up, these were lifted up: for the spirit of life was in them. 
    18: And the glory of the Lord went forth from the threshold of the temple: and stood over the cherubims. 
    19: And the cherubims lifting up their wings, were raised from the earth before me: and as they went out, the wheels also followed: and it stood in the entry of the east gate of the house of the Lord: and the glory of the God of Israel was over them. 
    20: This is the living creature, which I saw under the God of Israel by the river Chobar: and I understood that they were cherubims.
    21: Each one had four faces, and each one had four wings: and the likeness of a man's hand was under their wings. 
    22: And as to the likeness of their faces, they were the same faces which I had seen by the river Chobar, and their looks, and the impulse of every one to go straight forward.

  Chapter 11.

    1: And the spirit lifted me up, and brought me into the east gate of the house of the Lord, which looketh towards the rising of the sun: and behold in the entry of the gate five and twenty men: and I saw in the midst of them Jezonias the son of Azur, and Pheltias the son of Banaias, princes of the people. 
    2: And he said to me: Son of man, these are the men that study iniquity, and frame a wicked counsel in this city, 
    3: Saying: Were not houses lately built? This city is the caldron, and we the flesh. 
    4: Therefore prophesy against them, prophesy, thou son of man. 
    5: And the spirit of the Lord fell upon me, and said to me: Speak: Thus saith the Lord: Thus have you spoken, O house of Israel, for I know the thoughts of your heart.
    6: You have killed a great many in this city, and you have filled the streets thereof with the slain. 
    7: Therefore thus saith the Lord God: Your slain, whom you have laid in the midst thereof, they are the flesh, and this is the caldron: and I will bring you forth out of the midst thereof. 
    8: You have feared the sword, and I will bring the sword upon you, saith the Lord God. 
    9: And I will cast you out of the midst thereof, and I will deliver you into the hand of the enemies, and I will execute judgments upon you. 
    10: You shall fall by the sword: I will judge you in the borders of Israel, and you shall know that I am the Lord.
    11: This shall not be as a caldron to you, and you shall not be as flesh in the midst thereof: I will judge you in the borders of Israel. 
    12: And you shall know that I am the Lord: because you have not walked in my commandments, and have not done my judgments, but you have done according to the judgments of the nations that; are round about you. 
    13: And it came to pass, when I prophesied, that Pheltias the son of Banaias died: and I fell down upon my face, and cried with a loud voice: and said: Alas, alas, alas, O Lord God: wilt thou make an end of all the remnant of Israel? 
    14: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying: 
    15: Son of man, thy brethren, thy brethren, thy kinsmen, and all the house of Israel, all they to whom the inhabitants of Jerusalem have said: Get ye far from the Lord, the land is given in possession to us.
    16: Therefore thus saith the Lord God: Because I have removed them far off among the Gentiles, and because I have scattered them among the countries: I will be to them a little sanctuary in the countries whither they are come. 
    17: Therefore speak to them: Thus saith the Lord God: I will gather you from among the peoples, and assemble you out of the countries wherein you are scattered, and I will give you the land of Israel. 
    18: And they shall go in thither, and shall take away all the scandals, and all the abominations thereof from thence. 
    19: And I will give them one heart, and will put a new spirit in their bowels: and I will take away the stony heart out of their flesh, and will give them a heart of flesh: 
    20: That they may walk in my commandments, and keep my judgments, and do them: and that they may be my people, and I may be their God.
    21: But as for them whose heart walketh after their scandals and abominations, I will lay their way upon their head, saith the Lord God. 
    22: And the cherubims lifted up their wings, and the wheels with them: and the glory of the God of Israel was over them. 
    23: And the glory of the Lord went up from the midst of the city, and stood over the mount that is on the east side of the city. 
    24: And the spirit lifted me up, and brought me into Chaldea, to them of the captivity, in vision, by the spirit of God: and the vision which I had seen was taken up from me. 
    25: And I spoke to them of the captivity all the words of the Lord, which he had shewn me.

  Chapter 12.

    1: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying: 
    2: Son of man, thou dwellest in the midst of a provoking house: who have eyes to see, and see not: and ears to hear, and hear not: for they are a provoking house. 
    3: Thou, therefore, O son of man, prepare thee all necessaries for removing, and remove by day in their sight: and thou shalt remove out of thy place to another place in their sight, if so be they will regard it: for they are a provoking house. 
    4: And thou shalt bring forth thy furniture as the furniture of one that is removing by day in their sight: and thou shalt go forth in the evening in their presence, as one goeth forth that removeth his dwelling. 
    5: Dig thee a way through the wall before their eyes: and thou shalt go forth through it.
    6: In their sight thou shalt be carried out upon men's shoulders, thou shalt be carried out in the dark: thou shalt cover thy face, and shalt not see the ground: for I have set thee for a sign of things to come to the house of Israel. 
    7: I did therefore as he had commanded me: I brought forth my goods by day, as the goods of one that removeth: and in the evening I digged through the wall with my hand: and I went forth in the dark, and was carried on men's shoulders in their sight. 
    8: And the word of the Lord came to me in the morning, saying: 
    9: Son of man, hath not the house of Israel, the provoking house, said to thee: What art thou doing? 
    10: Say to them: Thus saith the Lord God: This burden concerneth my prince that is in Jerusalem, and all the house of Israel, that are among them.
    11: Say: I am a sign of things to come to you: as I have done, so shall it be done to them: they shall be removed from their dwellings, and go into captivity. 
    12: And the prince that is in the midst of them, shall be carried on shoulders, he shall go forth in the dark: they shall dig through the wall to bring him out: his face shall be covered, that he may not see the ground with his eyes. 
    13: And I will spread my net over him, and he shall be taken in my net: and I will bring him into Babylon, into the land of the Chaldeans, and he shall not see it, and there he shall die. 
    14: And all that are about him, his guards, and his troops I will scatter into every wind: and I will draw out the sword after them. 
    15: And they shall know that I am the Lord, when I shall have dispersed them among the nations, and scattered them in the countries.
    16: And I will leave a few men of them from the sword, and from the famine, and from the pestilence: that they may declare all their wicked deeds among the nations whither they shall go: and they shall know that I am the Lord. 
    17: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying: 
    18: Son of man, eat thy bread in trouble: and drink thy water in hurry and sorrow. 
    19: And say to the people of the land: Thus saith the Lord God to them that dwell in Jerusalem in the land of Israel: They shall eat their bread in care, and drink their water in desolation: that the land may become desolate from the multitude that is therein, for the iniquity of all that dwell therein. 
    20: And the cities that are now inhabited shall be laid waste, and the land shall be desolate: and you shall know that I am the Lord.
    21: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying: 
    22: Son of man, what is this proverb that you have in the land of Israel? saying: The days shall be prolonged, and every vision shall fail. 
    23: Say to them therefore: Thus saith the Lord God: I will make this proverb to cease, neither shall it be any more a common saying in Israel: and tell them that the days are at hand, and the effect of every vision. 
    24: For there shall be no more any vain visions, nor doubtful divination in the midst of the children of Israel. 
    25: For I the Lord will speak: and what word soever I shall speak, it shall come to pass, and shall not be prolonged any more: but in your days, ye provoking house, I will speak the word, and will do it, saith the Lord God.
    26: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying: 
    27: Son of man, behold the house of Israel, they that say: The vision that this man seeth, is for many days to come: and this man prophesieth of times afar off. 
    28: Therefore say to them: Thus saith the Lord God: Not one word of mine shall be prolonged any more: the word that I shall speak shall be accomplished, saith the Lord God.

End of day 249.