Day 149:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['21', '22', '23', '24']:

  Chapter 21.

    1: Unto the end, for the morning protection, a psalm for David. 
    2: O God my God, look upon me: why hast thou forsaken me? Far from my salvation are the words of my sins. 
    3: O my God, I shall cry by day, and thou wilt not hear: and by night, and it shall not be reputed as folly in me. 
    4: But thou dwellest in the holy place, the praise of Israel. 
    5: In thee have our fathers hoped: they have hoped, and thou hast delivered them.
    6: They cried to thee, and they were saved: they trusted in thee, and were not confounded. 
    7: But I am a worm, and no man: the reproach of men, and the outcast of the people. 
    8: All they that saw me have laughed me to scorn: they have spoken with the lips, and wagged the head. 
    9: He hoped in the Lord, let him deliver him: let him save him, seeing he delighteth in him. 
    10: For thou art he that hast drawn me out of the womb: my hope from the breasts of my mother.
    11: I was cast upon thee from the womb. From my mother's womb thou art my God, 
    12: Depart not from me. For tribulation is very near: for there is none to help me. 
    13: Many calves have surrounded me: fat bulls have besieged me. 
    14: They have opened their mouths against me, as a lion ravening and roaring. 
    15: I am poured out like water; and all my bones are scattered. My heart is become like wax melting in the midst of my bowels.
    16: My strength is dried up like a potsherd, and my tongue hath cleaved to my jaws: and thou hast brought me down into the dust of death. 
    17: For many dogs have encompassed me: the council of the malignant hath besieged me. They have dug my hands and feet. 
    18: They have numbered all my bones. And they have looked and stared upon me. 
    19: They parted my garments amongst them; and upon my vesture they cast lots. 
    20: But thou, O Lord, remove not thy help to a distance from me; look towards my defence.
    21: Deliver, O God, my soul from the sword: my only one from the hand of the dog. 
    22: Save me from the lion's mouth; and my lowness from the horns of the unicorns. 
    23: I will declare thy name to my brethren: in the midst of the church will I praise thee. 
    24: Ye that fear the Lord, praise him: all ye the seed of Jacob, glorify him. 
    25: Let all the seed of Israel fear him: because he hath not slighted nor despised the supplication of the poor man. Neither hath he turned away his face from me: and when I cried to him he heard me.
    26: With thee is my praise in a great church: I will pay my vows in the sight of them that fear him. 
    27: The poor shall eat and shall be filled: and they shall praise the Lord that seek him: their hearts shall live for ever and ever. 
    28: All the ends of the earth shall remember, and shall be converted to the Lord: And all the kindreds of the Gentiles shall adore in his sight. 
    29: For the kingdom is the Lord's; and he shall have dominion over the nations. 
    30: All the fat ones of the earth have eaten and have adored: all they that go down to the earth shall fall before him.
    31: And to him my soul shall live: and my seed shall serve him. 
    32: There shall be declared to the Lord a generation to come: and the heavens shall shew forth his justice to a people that shall be born, which the Lord hath made.

  Chapter 22.

    1: A psalm for David. The Lord ruleth me: and I shall want nothing. 
    2: He hath set me in a place of pasture. He hath brought me up, on the water of refreshment: 
    3: He hath converted my soul. He hath led me on the paths of justice, for his own name's sake. 
    4: For though I should walk in the midst of the shadow of death, I will fear no evils, for thou art with me. Thy rod and thy staff, they have comforted me. 
    5: Thou hast prepared a table before me against them that afflict me. Thou hast anointed my head with oil; and my chalice which inebriateth me, how goodly is it!
    6: And thy mercy will follow me all the days of my life. And that I may dwell in the house of the Lord unto length of days.

  Chapter 23.

    1: On the first day of the week, a psalm for David. The earth is the Lord's and the fulness thereof: the world, and all they that dwell therein. 
    2: For he hath founded it upon the seas; and hath prepared it upon the rivers. 
    3: Who shall ascend into the mountain of the Lord: or who shall stand in his holy place? 
    4: The innocent in hands, and clean of heart, who hath not taken his soul in vain, nor sworn deceitfully to his neighbour. 
    5: He shall receive a blessing from the Lord, and mercy from God his Saviour.
    6: This is the generation of them that seek him, of them that seek the face of the God of Jacob. 
    7: Lift up your gates, O ye princes, and be ye lifted up, O eternal gates: and the King of Glory shall enter in. 
    8: Who is this King of Glory? the Lord who is strong and mighty: the Lord mighty in battle. 
    9: Lift up your gates, O ye princes, and be ye lifted up, O eternal gates: and the King of Glory shall enter in. 
    10: Who is this King of Glory? the Lord of hosts, he is the King of Glory.

  Chapter 24.

    1: Unto the end, a psalm for David. To thee, O Lord, have I lifted up my soul. 
    2: In thee, O my God, I put my trust; let me not be ashamed. 
    3: Neither let my enemies laugh at me: for none of them that wait on thee shall be confounded. 
    4: Let all them be confounded that act unjust things without cause. shew, O Lord, thy ways to me, and teach me thy paths. 
    5: Direct me in thy truth, and teach me; for thou art God my Saviour; and on thee have I waited all the day long.
    6: Remember, O Lord, thy bowels of compassion; and thy mercies that are from the beginning of the world. 
    7: The sins of my youth and my ignorances do not remember. According to thy mercy remember thou me: for thy goodness' sake, O Lord. 
    8: The Lord is sweet and righteous: therefore he will give a law to sinners in the way. 
    9: He will guide the mild in judgment: he will teach the meek his ways. 
    10: All the ways of the Lord are mercy and truth, to them that seek after his covenant and his testimonies.
    11: For thy name's sake, O Lord, thou wilt pardon my sin: for it is great. 
    12: Who is the man that feareth the Lord? He hath appointed him a law in the way he hath chosen. 
    13: His soul shall dwell in good things: and his seed shall inherit the land. 
    14: The Lord is a firmament to them that fear him: and his covenant shall be made manifest to them. 
    15: My eyes are ever towards the Lord: for he shall pluck my feet out of the snare.
    16: Look thou upon me, and have mercy on me; for I am alone and poor. 
    17: The troubles of my heart are multiplied: deliver me from my necessities. 
    18: See my abjection and my labour; and forgive me all my sins. 
    19: Consider my enemies for they are multiplied, and have hated me with an unjust hatred. 
    20: Keep thou my soul, and deliver me: I shall not be ashamed, for I have hoped in thee.
    21: The innocent and the upright have adhered to me: because I have waited on thee. 
    22: Deliver Israel, O God, from all his tribulations.

End of day 149.