Day 79:

Reading 1-Kings, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: And behold there came a man of God out of Juda, by the word of the Lord to Bethel, when Jeroboam was standing upon the altar, and burning incense. 
    2: And he cried out against the altar in the word of the Lord, and said: O altar, altar, thus saith the Lord: Behold a child shall be born to the house of David, Josias by name, and he shall immolate upon thee the priests of the high places, who now burn incense upon thee, and he shall burn men's bones upon thee. 
    3: And he gave a sign the same day, saying: This shall be the sign, that the Lord hath spoken: Behold the altar shall be rent, and the ashes that are upon it shall be poured out. 
    4: And when the king had heard the word of the man of God, which he had cried out against the altar in Bethel, he stretched forth his hand from the altar, saying: Lay hold on him. And his hand which he stretched forth against him withered: and he was not able to draw it back again to him. 
    5: The altar also was rent, and the ashes were poured out from the altar, according to the sign which the man of God had given before in the word of the Lord.
    6: And the king said to the man of God: Entreat the face of the Lord thy God, and pray for me, that my hand may be restored to me. And the man of God besought the face of the Lord, and the king's hand was restored to him, and it became as it was before. 
    7: And the king said to the man of God: Come home with me to dine, and I will make thee presents. 
    8: And the man of God answered the king: If thou wouldst give me half thy house I will not go with thee, nor eat bread, nor drink water in this place: 
    9: For so it was enjoined me by the word of the Lord commanding me: Thou shalt not eat bread nor drink water, nor return by the same way that thou camest. 
    10: So he departed by another way, and returned not by the way that he came into Bethel.
    11: Now a certain old prophet dwelt in Bethel, and his sons came to him and told him all the works that the man of God had done that day in Bethel: and they told their father the words which he had spoken to the king. 
    12: And their father said to them: What way went he? His sons shewed him the way by which the man of God went, who came out of Juda. 
    13: And he said to his sons: Saddle me the ass. And when they had saddled him, he got up, 
    14: And went after the man of God, and found him sitting under a turpentine tree: and he said to him: Art thou the man of God that camest from Juda? He answered: I am. 
    15: And he said to him: Come home with me, to eat bread.
    16: But he said: I must not return, nor go with thee, neither will I eat bread, nor drink water in this place: 
    17: Because the Lord spoke to me in the word of the Lord, saying: Thou shalt not eat bread, and thou shalt not drink water there, nor return by the way thou wentest. 
    18: He said to him: I also am a prophet like unto thee: and an angel spoke to me in the word of the Lord, saying: Bring him back with thee into thy house, that he may eat bread, and drink water. He deceived him, 
    19: And brought him back with him: so he ate bread and drank water in his house. 
    20: And as they sat at table, the word of the Lord came to the prophet that brought him back:
    21: And he cried out to the man of God who came out of Juda, saying: Thus saith the Lord: Because thou hast not been obedient to the Lord, and hast not kept the commandment which the Lord thy God commanded thee, 
    22: And hast returned and eaten bread, and drunk water in the place wherein he commanded thee that thou shouldst not eat bread, nor drink water, thy dead body shall not be brought into the sepulchre of thy fathers. 
    23: And when he had eaten and drunk, he saddled his ass for the prophet, whom he had brought back. 
    24: And when he was gone, a lion found him in the way, and killed him, and his body was cast in the way: and the ass stood by him, and the lion stood by the dead body. 
    25: And behold, men passing by saw the dead body cast in the way, and the lion standing by the body. And they came and told it in the city, wherein that old prophet dwelt.
    26: And when that prophet, who had brought him back out of the way, heard of it, he said: It is the man of God, that was disobedient to the mouth of the Lord, and the Lord hath delivered him to the lion, and he hath torn him, and killed him according to the word of the Lord, which he spoke to him. 
    27: And he said to his sons: Saddle me an ass. And when they had saddled it, 
    28: And he was gone, he found the dead body cast in the way, and the ass and the lion standing by the carcass: the lion had not eaten of the dead body, nor hurt the ass. 
    29: And the prophet took up the body of the man of God, and laid it upon the ass, and going back brought it into the city of the old prophet, to mourn for him. 
    30: And he laid his dead body in his own sepulchre: and they mourned over him, saying: Alas! alas! my brother.
    31: And when they had mourned over him, he said to his sons: When I am dead, bury me in the sepulchre wherein the man of God is buried: lay my bones beside his bones. 
    32: For assuredly the word shall come to pass which he hath foretold in the word of the Lord against the altar that is in Bethel: and against all the temples of the high places, that are in the cities of Samaria. 
    33: After these words Jeroboam came not back from his wicked way: but on the contrary he made of the meanest of the people priests of the high places: whosoever would, he filled his hand, and he was made a priest of the high places. 
    34: And for this cause did the house of Jeroboam sin, and was cut off and destroyed from the face of the earth.

  Chapter 14.

    1: At that time Abia the son of Jeroboam fell sick. 
    2: And Jeroboam said to his wife: Arise, and change thy dress, that thou be not known to be the wife of Jeroboam, and go to Silo, where Ahias the prophet is, who told me, that I should reign over this people. 
    3: Take also with thee ten leaves, and cracknels, and a pot of honey, and go to him: for he will tell thee what shall become of this child. 
    4: Jeroboam's wife did as he told her: and rising up went to Silo, and came to the house of Ahias: but he could not see, for his eyes were dim by reason of his age. 
    5: And the Lord said to Ahias: Behold the wife of Jeroboam cometh in, to consult thee concerning her son that is sick: thus and thus shalt thou speak to her. So when she was coming in, and made as if she were another woman,
    6: Ahias heard the sound of her feet coming in at the door, and said: Come in, thou wife of Jeroboam: why dost thou feign thyself to be another? But I am sent to thee with heavy tidings. 
    7: Go, and tell Jeroboam: Thus saith the Lord the God of Israel: Forasmuch as I exalted thee from among the people, and made thee prince over my people Israel: 
    8: And rent the kingdom away from the house of David, and gave it to thee, and thou hast not been as my servant David, who kept my commandments, and followed me with all his heart, doing that which was well pleasing in my sight: 
    9: But hast done evil above all that were before thee, and hast made thee strange gods and molten gods, to provoke me to anger, and hast cast me behind thy back: 
    10: Therefore behold I will bring evils upon the house of Jeroboam, and will cut of from Jeroboam him that pisseth against the wall, and him that is shut up, and the last in Israel: and I will sweep away the remnant of the house of Jeroboam, as dung is swept away till all be clean.
    11: Them that shall die of Jeroboam in the city, the dogs shall eat: and them that shall die in the field, the birds of the air shall devour: for the Lord hath spoken it. 
    12: Arise thou therefore, and go to thy house: and when thy feet shall be entering into the city, the child shall die, 
    13: And all Israel shall mourn for him, and shall bury him: for he only of Jeroboam shall be laid in a sepulchre, because in his regard there is found a good word from the Lord the God of Israel, in the house of Jeroboam. 
    14: And the Lord hath appointed himself a king over Israel, who shall cut off the house of Jeroboam in this day, and in this time: 
    15: And the Lord God shall strike Israel as a reed is shaken in the water: and he shall root up Israel out of this good land, which he gave to their fathers, and shall scatter them beyond the river: because they have made to themselves groves, to provoke the Lord.
    16: And the Lord shall give up Israel for the sins of Jeroboam, who hath sinned, and made Israel to sin. 
    17: And the wife of Jeroboam arose, and departed, and came to Thersa: and when she was coming in to the threshold of the house, the child died; 
    18: And they buried him. And all Israel mourned for him according to the word of the Lord, which he spoke by the hand of his servant Ahias the prophet. 
    19: And the rest of the acts of Jeroboam, how he fought, and how he reigned, behold they are written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Israel. 
    20: And the days that Jeroboam reigned, were two and twenty years: and he slept with his fathers: and Nadab his son reigned in his stead.
    21: And Roboam the son of Solomon reigned in Juda: Roboam was one and forty years old when he began to reign: and he reigned seventeen years in Jerusalem the city, which the Lord chose out of all the tribes of Israel to put his name there. And his mother's name wee Naama an Ammonitess. 
    22: And Juda did evil in the sight of the Lord, and provoked him above all that their fathers had done, in their sins which they committed. 
    23: For they also built them altars, and statues, and groves upon every high hill and under every green tree: 
    24: There were also the effeminate in the land, and they did according to all the abominations of the people whom the Lord had destroyed before the face of the children of Israel. 
    25: And in the fifth year of the reign of Roboam, Sesac king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem.
    26: And he took away the treasures of the house of the Lord, and the king's treasures, and carried all off: as also the shields of gold which Solomon had made. 
    27: And Roboam made shields of brass instead of them, and delivered them into the. hand of the captains of the shieldbearers, and of them that kept watch before the gate of the king's house. 
    28: And when the king went into the house of the Lord, they whose office it was to go before him, carried them: and afterwards they brought them back to the armoury of the shieldbearers. 
    29: Now the rest of the sets of Roboam, and all that he did, behold they are written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Juda. 
    30: And there was war between Roboam and Jeroboam always.
    31: And Roboam slept with his fathers, and was buried with them in the city of David: and his mother's name was Naama an Ammonitess: and Abiam his son reigned in his stead.

  Chapter 15.

    1: Now in the eighteenth year of the reign of Jeroboam the son of Nabat, Abiam reigned over Juda. 
    2: He reigned three years in Jerusalem: the name of his mother was Maacha the daughter of Abessalom. 
    3: And he walked in all the sins of his father, which he had done before him: and his heart was not perfect with the Lord his God, as was the heart of David his father. 
    4: But for David's sake the Lord his God gave him a lamp in Jerusalem, to set up his son after him, and to establish Jerusalem: 
    5: Because David had done that which was right in the eyes of the Lord, and had not turned aside from any thing that he commanded him, all the days of his life, except the matter of Urias the Hethite.
    6: But there was war between Roboam and Jeroboam all the time of his life. 
    7: And the rest of the words of Abiam, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Juda? And there was war between Abiam and Jeroboam. 
    8: And Abiam slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David, and Asa his son reigned in his stead. 
    9: So in the twentieth year of Jeroboam king of Israel, reigned Asa king of Juda, 
    10: And he reigned one and forty years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Maacha, the daughter of Abessalom.
    11: And Asa did that which was right in the sight of the Lord, as did David his father: 
    12: And he took away the effeminate out of the land, and he removed all the filth of the idols, which his fathers had made. 
    13: Moreover he also removed his mother Maacha, from being the princess in the sacrifices of Priapus, and in the grove which she had consecrated to him: and he destroyed her den, and broke in pieces the filthy idol, and burnt it by the torrent Cedron: 
    14: But the high places he did not take away. Nevertheless the heart of Asa was perfect with the Lord all his days: 
    15: And he brought in the things which his father had dedicated, and he had vowed, into the house of the Lord, silver and gold, and vessels.
    16: And there was war between Asa, and Baasa king of Israel all their days. 
    17: And Baasa king of Israel went up against Juda, and built Rama, that no man might go out or come in, of the side of Asa king of Juda. 
    18: Then Asa took all the silver and gold that remained in the treasures of the house of the Lord, and in the treasures of the king's house, and delivered it into the hands of his servants: and sent them to Benadad son of Tabremon the son of Hezion, king of Syria, who dwelt in Damascus, saying: 
    19: There is a league between me and thee, and between my father and thy father: therefore I have sent thee presents of silver and gold: and I desire thee to come, and break thy league with Baasa king of Israel, that he may depart from me. 
    20: Benadad hearkening to king Asa, sent the captains of his army against the cities of Israel, and they smote Ahion, and Dan, and Abeldomum Maacha, and all Cenneroth, that is all the land of Nephtali.
    21: And when Baasa had heard this, he left off building Rama, and returned into Thersa. 
    22: But king Asa sent word into all Juda, saying: Let no man be excused: and they took away the stones from Rama, and the timber thereof wherewith Baasa had been building, and with them Asa built Gabaa of Benjamin, and Maspha. 
    23: But the rest of all the acts of Asa, and all his strength, and all that he did and the cities that he built, are they not written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Juda? But in the time of his old age he was diseased in his feet. 
    24: And he slept with his fathers, and was buried with them in the city of David his father. And Josaphat his son reigned in his place. 
    25: But Nadab the son of Jeroboam reigned over Israel the second year of Asa king of Juda: and he reigned over Israel two years.
    26: And he did evil in the sight of the Lord, and walked in the ways of his father, and in his sins, wherewith he made Israel to sin. 
    27: And Baasa the son of Ahias of the house of Issachar, conspired against him, and slew him in Gebbethon, which is a city of the Philistines: for Nadab and all Israel besieged Gebbethon. 
    28: So Baasa slew him in the third year of Asa king of Juda, and reigned in his place. 
    29: And when he was king he cut off all the house of Jeroboam: he left not so much as one soul of his seed, till he had utterly destroyed him, according to the word of the Lord, which he had spoken in the hand of Ahias the Silonite: 
    30: Because of the sin of Jeroboam, which he had sinned, and wherewith he had made Israel to sin, and for the offence, wherewith he provoked the Lord the God of Israel.
    31: But the rest of the acts of Nadab, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Israel? 
    32: And there was war between Asa and Baasa the king of Israel all their days. 
    33: In the third year of Asa king of Juda, Baasa the son of Ahias reigned over all Israel, in Thersa, four and twenty years. 
    34: And he did evil before the Lord, and walked in the ways of Jeroboam, and in his sins, wherewith he made Israel to sin.

  Chapter 16.

    1: Then the word of the Lord came to Jehu the son of Hanani against Baasa, saying: 
    2: Forasmuch as I have exalted thee out of the dust, and made thee prince over my people Israel, and thou hast walked in the way of Jeroboam, and hast made my people Israel to sin, to provoke me to anger with their sins: 
    3: Behold, I will cut down the posterity of Baasa, and the posterity of his house, and I will make thy house as the house of Jeroboam the son of Nabat. 
    4: Him that dieth of Baasa in the city, the dogs shall eat: and him that dieth of his in the country, the fowls of the air shall devour. 
    5: But the rest of the acts of Baasa and all that he did, and his battles, are they not written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Israel?
    6: So Baasa slept with his fathers, and was buried in Thersa: and Ela his son reigned in his stead. 
    7: And when the word of the Lord came in the hand of Jehu the son of Hanani the prophet, against Baasa, and against his house, and against all the evil that he had done before the Lord, to provoke him to anger by the works of his hands, to become as the house of Jeroboam: for this cause he slew him, that is to say, Jehu the son of Hanani, the prophet. 
    8: In the six and twentieth year of Asa king of Juda, Ela the son of Baasa reigned over Israel in Thersa two years. 
    9: And his servant Zambri, who was captain of half the horsemen, rebelled against him: now Ela was drinking in Thersa, and drunk in the house of Arsa the governor of Thersa. 
    10: And Zambri rushing in, struck him and slew him in the seven and twentieth year of Asa king of Juda, and he reigned in his stead.
    11: And when he was king and sat upon his throne, he slew all the house of Baasa, and he left not one thereof to piss against a wall, and all his kinsfolks and friends. 
    12: And Zambri destroyed all the house of Baasa, according to the word of the Lord, that he had spoken to Baasa in the hand of Jehu the prophet, 
    13: For all the sins of Baasa, and the sins of Ela his son, who sinned, and made Israel to sin, provoking the Lord the God of Israel with their vanities. 
    14: But the rest of the acts of Ela, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Israel? 
    15: In the seven and twentieth year of Asa king of Juda, Zambri reigned seven days in Thersa: now the army was besieging Gebbethon a city of the Philistines.
    16: And when they heard that Zambri had rebelled, and slain the king, all Israel made Amri their king, who was general over Israel in the camp that day. 
    17: And Amri went up, and all Israel with him from Gebbethon, and they besieged Thersa. 
    18: And Zambri seeing that the city was about to be taken, went into the palace and burnt himself with the king's house: and he died 
    19: In his sins, which he had sinned, doing evil before the Lord, and walking in the way of Jeroboam, and in his sin, wherewith he made Israel to sin. 
    20: But the rest of the acts of Zambri, and of his conspiracy and tyranny, are they not written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Israel?
    21: Then were the people of Israel divided into two parts: one half of the people followed Thebni the son of Gineth, to make him king: and one half followed Amri. 
    22: But the people that were with Amri, prevailed over the people that followed Thebni the son of Gineth: and Thebni died, and Amri reigned. 
    23: In the one and thirtieth year of Asa king of Juda, Amri reigned over Israel twelve years: in Thersa he reigned six years. 
    24: And he bought the hill of Samaria of Semer for two talents of silver: and he built upon it, and he called the city which he built Samaria, after the name of Semer the owner of the hill. 
    25: And Amri did evil in the sight of the Lord, and acted wickedly above all that were before him.
    26: And he walked in all the way of Jeroboam the son of Nabat, and in his sins wherewith he made Israel to sin: to provoke the Lord the God of Israel to anger with their vanities. 
    27: Now the rest of the acts of Amri, and the battles he fought, are they not written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Israel? 
    28: And Amri slept with his fathers, and was buried in Samaria, and Achab his son reigned in his stead. 
    29: Now Achab the son of Amri reigned over Israel in the eight and thirtieth year of Asa king of Juda. And Achab the son of Amri reigned over Israel in Samaria two and twenty years. 
    30: And Achab the son of Amri did evil in the sight of the Lord above all that were before him.
    31: Nor was it enough for him to walk in the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nabat: but he also took to wife Jezabel daughter of Ethbaal king of the Sidonians. And he went, and served Baal, and adored him. 
    32: And he set up an altar for Baal in the temple of Baal, which he had built in Samaria, 
    33: And he planted a grove: and Achab did more to provoke the Lord the God of Israel, than all the kings of Israel that were before him. 
    34: In his days Hiel of Bethel built Jericho: in Abiram his firstborn he laid its foundations: and in his youngest son Segub he set up the gates thereof: according to the word of the Lord, which he spoke in the hand of Josue the son of Nun.

End of day 79.