Day 201:

Reading Sirach, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: Set not thy heart upon unjust possessions, and say not: I have enough to live on: for it shall be of no service in the time of vengeance and darkness. 
    2: Follow not in thy strength the desires of thy heart: 
    3: And say not: How mighty am I? and who shall bring me under for my deeds? for God will surely take revenge. 
    4: Say not: I have sinned, and what harm hath befallen me? for the most High is a patient rewarder. 
    5: Be not without fear about sin forgiven, and add not sin upon sin:
    6: And say not: The mercy of the Lord is great, he will have mercy on the multitude of my sins. 
    7: For mercy and wrath quickly come from him, and his wrath looketh upon sinners. 
    8: Delay not to be converted to the Lord, and defer it not from day to day. 
    9: For his wrath shall come on a sudden, and in the time of vengeance he will destroy thee. 
    10: Be not anxious for goods unjustly gotten: for they shall not profit thee in the day of calamity and revenge.
    11: Winnow not with every wind, and go not into every way: for so is every sinner proved by a double tongue. 
    12: Be steadfast in the way of the Lord, and in the truth of thy judgment, and in knowledge, and let the word of peace and justice keep with thee. 
    13: Be meek to hear the word, that thou mayst understand: and return a true answer with wisdom. 
    14: If thou have understanding, answer thy neighbour: but if not, let thy hand be upon thy mouth, lest thou be surprised in an unskillful word, and be confounded. 
    15: Honour and glory is in the word of the wise, but the tongue of the fool is his ruin.
    16: Be not called a whisperer, and be not taken in thy tongue, and confounded. 
    17: For confusion and repentance is upon a thief, and an evil mark of disgrace upon the double tongued, but to the whisperer hatred, and enmity, and reproach. 
    18: Justify alike the small and the great.

  Chapter 6.

    1: Instead of a friend become not an enemy to thy neighbour: for an evil man shall inherit reproach and shame, so shall every sinner that is envious and double tongued. 
    2: Extol not thyself in the thoughts of thy soul like a bull: lest thy strength be quashed by folly, 
    3: And it eat up thy leaves, and destroy thy fruit: and thou be left as a dry tree in the wilderness. 
    4: For a wicked soul shall destroy him that hath it, and maketh him to be a joy to his enemies, and shall lead him into the lot of the wicked. 
    5: A sweet word multiplieth friends, and appeaseth enemies, and a gracious tongue in a good man aboundeth.
    6: Be in peace with many, but let one of a thousand be thy counsellor. 
    7: If thou wouldst get a friend, try him before thou takest him, and do not credit him easily. 
    8: For there is a friend for his own occasion, and he will not abide in the day of thy trouble. 
    9: And there is a friend that turneth to enmity; and there is a friend that will disclose hatred and strife and reproaches. 
    10: And there is a friend a companion at the table, and he will not abide in the day of distress.
    11: A friend if he continue steadfast, shall be to thee as thyself, and shall act with confidence among them of thy household. 
    12: If he humble himself before thee, and hide himself from thy face, thou shalt have unanimous friendship for good. 
    13: Separate thyself from thy enemies, and take heed of thy friends. 
    14: A faithful friend is a strong defence: and he that hath found him, hath found a treasure. 
    15: Nothing can be compared to a faithful friend, and no weight of gold and silver is able to countervail the goodness of his fidelity.
    16: A faithful friend is the medicine of life and immortality: and they that fear the Lord, shall find him. 
    17: He that feareth God, shall likewise have good friendship: because according to him shall his friend be. 
    18: My son, from thy youth up receive instruction, and even to thy grey hairs thou shalt find wisdom. 
    19: Come to her as one that plougheth, and soweth, and wait for her good fruits: 
    20: For in working about her thou shalt labour a little, and shalt quickly eat of her fruits.
    21: How very unpleasant is wisdom to the unlearned, and the unwise will not continue with her. 
    22: She shall be to them as a mighty stone of trial, and they will cast her from them before it be long. 
    23: For the wisdom of doctrine is according to her name, and she is not manifest unto many, but with them to whom she is known, she continueth even to the sight of God. 
    24: Give ear, my son, and take wise counsel, and cast not away my advice. 
    25: Put thy feet into her fetters, and thy neck into her chains:
    26: Bow down thy shoulder, and bear her, and be not grieved with her bands. 
    27: Come to her with all thy mind, and keep her ways with all thy power. 
    28: Search for her, and she shall be made known to thee, and when thou hast gotten her, let her not go: 
    29: For in the latter end thou shalt find rest in her, and she shall be turned to thy joy. 
    30: Then shall her fetters be a strong defence for thee, and a firm foundation, and her chain a robe of glory:
    31: For in her is the beauty of life, and her bands are a healthful binding. 
    32: Thou shalt put her on as a robe of glory, and thou shalt set her upon thee as a crown of joy. 
    33: My son, if thou wilt attend to me, thou shalt learn: and if thou wilt apply thy mind, thou shalt be wise. 
    34: If thou wilt incline thy ear, thou shalt receive instruction: and if thou love to hear, thou shalt be wise. 
    35: Stand in the multitude of ancients that are wise, and join thyself from thy heart to their wisdom, that thou mayst hear every discourse of God, and the sayings of praise may not escape thee.
    36: And if thou see a man of understanding, go to him early in the morning, and let thy foot wear the steps of his doors. 
    37: Let thy thoughts be upon the precepts of God, and meditate continually on his commandments: and he will give thee a heart, and the desire of wisdom shall be given to thee.

  Chapter 7.

    1: Do no evils, and no evils shall lay hold of thee. 
    2: Depart from the unjust, and evils shall depart from thee. 
    3: My son, sow not evils in the furrows of injustice, and thou shalt not reap them sevenfold. 
    4: Seek not of the Lord a pre-eminence, nor of the king the seat of honour. 
    5: Justify not thyself before God, for he knoweth the heart: and desire not to appear wise before the king.
    6: Seek not to be made a judge, unless thou have strength enough to extirpate iniquities: lest thou fear the person of the powerful, and lay a stumblingblock for thy integrity. 
    7: Offend not against the multitude of a city, neither cast thyself in upon the people, 
    8: Nor bind sin to sin: for even in one thou shalt not be unpunished. 
    9: Be not fainthearted in thy mind: 
    10: Neglect not to pray, and to give alms.
    11: Say not: God will have respect to the multitude of my gifts, and when I offer to the most high God, he will accept my offerings. 
    12: Laugh no man to scorn in the bitterness of his soul: for there is one that humbleth and exalteth, God who seeth all. 
    13: Devise not a lie against thy brother: neither do the like against thy friend. 
    14: Be not willing to make any manner of lie: for the custom thereof is not good. 
    15: Be not full of words in a multitude of ancients, and repeat not the word in thy prayer.
    16: Hate not laborious works, nor husbandry ordained by the most High. 
    17: Number not thyself among the multitude of the disorderly. 
    18: Remember wrath, for it will not tarry long. 
    19: Humble thy spirit very much: for the vengeance on the flesh of the ungodly is fire and worms. 
    20: Do not transgress against thy friend deferring money, nor despise thy dear brother for the sake of gold.
    21: Depart not from a wise and good wife, whom thou hast gotten in the fear of the Lord: for the grace of her modesty is above gold. 
    22: Hurt not the servant that worketh faithfully, nor the hired man that giveth thee his life. 
    23: Let a wise servant be dear to thee as thy own soul, defraud him not of liberty, nor leave him needy. 
    24: Hast thou cattle? have an eye to them: and if they be for thy profit, keep them with thee. 
    25: Hast thou children? instruct them, and bow down their neck from their childhood.
    26: Hast thou daughters? have a care of their body, and shew not thy countenance gay towards them. 
    27: Marry thy daughter well, and thou shalt do a great work, and give her to a wise man. 
    28: If thou hast a wife according to thy soul, cast her not off: and to her that is hateful, trust not thyself. With thy whole heart, 
    29: Honour thy father, and forget not the groanings of thy mother: 
    30: Remember that thou hadst not been born but through them: and make a return to them as they have done for thee.
    31: With all thy soul fear the Lord, and reverence his priests. 
    32: With all thy strength love him that made thee: and forsake not his ministers. 
    33: Honour God with all thy soul, and give honour to the priests, and purify thyself with thy arms. 
    34: Give them their portion, as it is commanded thee, of the firstfruits and of purifications: and for thy negligences purify thyself with a few. 
    35: Offer to the Lord the gift of thy shoulders, and the sacrifice of sanctification, and the firstfruits of the holy things:
    36: And stretch out thy hand to the poor, that thy expiation and thy blessing may be perfected. 
    37: A gift hath grace in the sight of all the living, and restrain not grace from the dead. 
    38: Be not wanting in comforting them that weep, and walk with them that mourn. 
    39: Be not slow to visit the sick: for by these things thou shalt be confirmed in love. 
    40: In all thy works remember thy last end, and thou shalt never sin.

  Chapter 8.

    1: Strive not with a powerful man, lest thou fall into his hands. 
    2: Contend not with a rich man, lest he bring an action against thee. 
    3: For gold and silver hath destroyed many, and hath reached even to the heart of kings, and perverted them. 
    4: Strive not with a man that is full of tongue, and heap not wood upon his fire. 
    5: Communicate not with an ignorant man, lest he speak ill of thy family.
    6: Despise not a man that turneth away from sin, nor reproach him therewith: remember that we are all worthy of reproof. 
    7: Despise not a man in his old age; for we also shall become old. 
    8: Rejoice not at the death of thy enemy; knowing that we all die, and are not willing that others should rejoice at our death. 
    9: Despise not the discourse of them that are ancient and wise, but acquaint thyself with their proverbs. 
    10: For of them thou shalt learn wisdom, and instruction of understanding, and to serve great men without blame.
    11: Let not the discourse of the ancients escape thee, for they have learned of their fathers: 
    12: For of them thou shalt learn understanding, and to give an answer in time of need. 
    13: Kindle not the coals of sinners by rebuking them, lest thou be burnt with the flame of the fire of their sins. 
    14: Stand not against the face of an injurious person, lest he sit as a spy to entrap thee in thy words. 
    15: Lend not to a man that is mightier than thyself: and if thou lendest, count it as lost.
    16: Be not surety above thy power: and if thou be surety, think as if thou wert to pay it. 
    17: Judge not against a judge: for he judgeth according to that which is just. 
    18: Go not on the way with a bold man, lest he burden thee with his evils: for he goeth according to his own will, and thou shalt perish together with his folly. 
    19: Quarrel not with a passionate man, and go not into the desert with a bold man: for blood is as nothing in his sight, and where there is no help he will overthrow thee. 
    20: Advise not with fools, for they cannot love but such things as please them.
    21: Before a stranger do no matter of counsel: for thou knowest not what he will bring forth. 
    22: Open not thy heart to every man: lest he repay thee with an evil turn, and speak reproachfully to thee.

End of day 201.