Day 52:

Reading Joshua, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: Josue was old, and far advanced in years, and the Lord said to him: Thou art grown old, and advanced in age, and there is a very large country left, which is not yet divided by lot: 
    2: To wit, all Galilee, Philistia, and all Gessuri. 
    3: From the troubled river, that watereth Egypt, unto the borders of Accaron northward: the land of Chanaan, which is divided among the lords of the Philistines, the Gazites, the Azotians, the Ascalonites, the Gethites, and the Accronites. 
    4: And on the south side are the Hevites, all the land of Chanaan, and Maara of the Sidonians as far as Apheca, and the borders of the Amorrhite, 
    5: And his confines. The country also of Libanus towards the east from Baalgad under mount Hermon to the entering into Emath.
    6: Of all that dwell in the mountains from Libanus, to the waters of Maserephoth, and all the Sidonians. I am he that will cut them off from before the face of the children of Israel. So let their land come in as a part of the inheritance of Israel, as I have commanded thee. 
    7: And now divide the land in possession to the nine tribes, and to the half tribe of Manasses, 
    8: With whom Ruben and Gad have possessed the land, which Moses the servant of the Lord delivered to them beyond the river Jordan, on the east side. 
    9: From Aroer, which is upon the bank of the torrent Amen, and in the midst of the valley and all the plains of Medaba, as far as Dibon: 
    10: And all the cities of Sehon, king of the Amorrhites, who reigned in Hesebon, unto the borders of the children of Ammon.
    11: And Galaad, and the borders of Gessuri and Machati, and all mount Hermon, and all Basan as far as Salecha, 
    12: All the kingdom of Og in Basan, who reigned in Astaroth and Edrai, he was of the remains of the Raphaims: and Moses overthrew and destroyed them. 
    13: And the children of Israel would not destroy Gessuri and Machati: and they have dwelt in the midst of Israel, until this present day. 
    14: But to the tribe of Levi he gave no possession: but the sacrifices and victims of the Lord God of Israel, are his inheritance, as he spoke to him. 
    15: And Moses gave a possession to the children of Ruben according to their kindreds.
    16: And their border was from Aroer, which is on the bank of the torrent Arnon, and in the midst of the valley of the same torrent: all the plain, that leadeth to Medaba, 
    17: And Hesebon, and all their villages, which are in the plains. Dibon also, and Bamothbaal, and the town of Baalmaon, 
    18: And Jassa, and Cidimoth, and Mephaath, 
    19: And Cariathaim, and Sabama, and Sarathasar in the mountain of the valley. 
    20: Bethphogor and Asedoth, Phasga and Bethiesimoth,
    21: And all the cities of the plain, and all the kingdoms of Sehon king of the Amorrhites, that reigned in Hesebon, whom Moses slew with the princes of Madian: Hevi, and Recem, and Sur and Hur, and Rebe, dukes of Sehon inhabitants of the land. 
    22: Balaam also the son of Beer the soothsayer, the children of Israel slew with the sword among the rest that were slain. 
    23: And the river Jordan was the herder of the children of Ruben. This is the possession of the Rubenites, by their kindreds, of cities and villages. 
    24: And Moses gave to the tribe of Gad and to his children by their kindreds a possession, of which this is the division. 
    25: The border of Jaser, and all the cities of Galaad, and half the land of the children of Ammon: as far as Aroer which is over against Rabba:
    26: And from Hesebon unto Ramoth, Masphe and Betonim: and from Manaim unto the borders of Dabir. 
    27: And in the valley Betharan and Bethnemra, and Socoth, and Saphon the other part of the kingdom of Sehon king of Hesebon: the limit of this also is the Jordan, as far as the uttermost part of the sea of Cenereth beyond the Jordan on the east side. 
    28: This is the possession of the children of Gad by their families, their cities, and villages. 
    29: He gave also to the half tribe of Manasses and his children possession according to their kindreds, 
    30: The beginning whereof is this: from Manaim all Basan, and all the kingdoms of Og king of Basan, and all the villages of Jair, which are in Basan, threescore towns.
    31: And half Galaad, and Astaroth, and Edrai, cities of the kingdom of Og in Basan: to the children of Machir, the son of Manasses, to one? half of the children of Machir according to their kindreds. 
    32: This possession Moses divided in the plains of Moab, beyond the Jordan, over against Jericho on the east side. 
    33: But to the tribe of Levi he gave no possession: because the Lord the God of Israel himself is their possession, as he spoke to them.

  Chapter 14.

    1: This is what the children of Israel possessed in the land of Chanaan, which Eleazar the priest, and Josue the son of Nun, and the princes of the families by the tribes of Israel gave to them: 
    2: Dividing all by lot, as the Lord had commanded by the hand of Moses, to the nine tribes, and the half tribe. 
    3: For to two tribes and a half Moses had given possession beyond the Jordan: besides the Levites, who received no land among their brethren: 
    4: But in their place succeeded the children of Joseph divided into two tribes, of Manasses and Ephraim: neither did the Levites receive other portion of land, but cities to dwell in, and their suburbs to feed their beasts and flocks. 
    5: As the Lord had commanded Moses, so did the children of Israel, and they divided the land.
    6: Then the children of Juda came to Josue in Galgal, and Caleb the son of Jephone the Cenezite spoke to him: Thou knowest what the Lord spoke to Moses the man of God concerning me and thee in Cadesbarne. 
    7: I was forty Bears old when Moses the servant of the Lord sent me from Cadesbarne, to view the land, and I brought him word again as to me seemed true. 
    8: But my brethren, that had gone up with me, discouraged the heart of the people: and I nevertheless followed the Lord my God. 
    9: And Moses swore in that day, saying: The land which thy foot hath trodden upon shall be thy possession, and thy children's for ever, because thou hast followed the Lord my God. 
    10: The Lord therefore hath granted me life, as he promised until this present day. It is forty and five years since the Lord spoke this word to Moses, when Israel journeyed through the wilderness: this day I am eighty-five years old,
    11: As strong as I was at that time when I was sent to view the land: the strength of that time continueth in me until this day, as well to fight as to march. 
    12: Give me therefore this mountain, which the Lord promised, in thy hearing also, wherein are the Enacims, and cities great and strong: if so be the Lord will be with me, and I shall be able to destroy them, as he promised me. 
    13: And Josue blessed him, and gave him Hebron in possession. 
    14: And from that time Hebron belonged to Caleb the son of Jephone the Cenezite, until this present day: because he followed the Lord the God of Israel. 
    15: The name of Hebron before was called Cariath-Arbe: Adam the greatest among the Enacims was laid there: and the land rested from wars.

  Chapter 15.

    1: Now the lot of the children of Juda by their kindreds was this: From the frontier of Edom, to the desert of Sin southward, and to the uttermost part of the south coast. 
    2: Its beginning was from the top of the most salt sea, and from the bay thereof, that looketh to the south. 
    3: And it goeth out towards the ascent of the Scorpion, and passeth on to Sina: and ascendeth into Cadesbarne, and reacheth into Esron, going up to Addar, and compassing Carcaa. 
    4: And from thence passing along into Asemona, and reaching the torrent of Egypt: and the bounds thereof shall be the great sea, this shall be the limit of the south coast. 
    5: But on the east side the beginning shall be the most salt sea even to the end of the Jordan: and towards the north, from the bay of the sea unto the same river Jordan.
    6: And the border goeth up into Beth-Hagla, and passeth by the north into Beth-Araba: going up to the stone of Boen the son of Ruben. 
    7: And reaching as far as the borders of Debara from the valley of Achor, and so northward looking towards Galgal, which is opposite to the ascent of Adommin, on the south side of the torrent: and the border passeth the waters that are called the fountain of the sun: and the goings out thereof shall be at the fountain Rogel. 
    8: And it goeth up by the valley of the son of Ennom on the side of the Jebusite towards the south, the same is Jerusalem: and thence ascending to the top of the mountain, which is over against Geennom to the west in the end of the valley of Raphaim, northward. 
    9: And it passeth on from the top of the mountain to the fountain of the water of Nephtoa: and reacheth to the towns of mount Ephron: and it bendeth towards Baala, which is Cariathiarim, that is to say, the city of the woods. 
    10: And it compasseth from Baala westward unto mount Seir: and passeth by the side of mount Jarim to the north into Cheslon: and goeth down into Bethsames, and passeth into Thamna.
    11: And it reacheth northward to a part of Accaron at the side: and bendeth to Sechrona, and passeth mount Baala: and cometh into Jebneel, and is bounded westward with the great sea. 
    12: These are the borders round about of the children of Juda in their kindreds. 
    13: But to Caleb the son of Jephone he gave a portion in the midst of the children of Juda, as the Lord had commanded him: Cariath-Arbe the father of Enac. which is Hebron. 
    14: And Caleb destroyed out of it the three sons of Ehac, Sesai and Ahiman. and Tholmai of the race of Enac. 
    15: And going up from thence he came to the inhabitants of Dabir, which before was called Cariath-Sepher, that is to say, the city of letters.
    16: And Caleb said: He that shall smite Cariath-Sepher, and take it, I will give him Axa my daughter to wife. 
    17: And Othoniel the son of Cenez, the younger brother of Caleb, took it: and he gave him Axa his daughter to wife. 
    18: And as they were going together, she was moved by her husband to ask a field of her father, and she sighed as she sat on her ass. And Caleb said to her: What aileth thee? 
    19: But she answered: Give me a blessing: thou hast given me a southern and dry land, give me also a land that is watered. And Caleb gave her the upper and the nether watery ground. 
    20: This is the possession of the tribe of the children of Juda by their kindreds.
    21: And the cities from the uttermost parts of the children of Juda by the borders of Edom to the south, were Cabseel and Eder and Jagur, 
    22: And Cina and Dimona and Adada, 
    23: And Cades and Asor and Jethnam, 
    24: Ziph and Telem and Baloth, 
    25: New Asor and Carioth, Hesron, which is Asor.
    26: Amam, Sama and Molada, 
    27: And Asergadda and Hassemon and Bethphelet, 
    28: And Hasersual and Bersabee and Baziothia, 
    29: And Baala and Jim and Esem, 
    30: And Eltholad and Cesil and Harma,
    31: And Siceleg and Medemena and Sensenna, 
    32: Lebaoth and Selim and Aen and Remmon: all the cities twenty-nine, and their villages. 
    33: But in the plains: Estaol and Sarea and Asena, 
    34: And Zanoe and Engannim and Taphua and Enaim, 
    35: And Jerimoth and Adullam, Socho and Azeca,
    36: And Saraim and Adithaim and Gedera and Gederothaim: fourteen cities, and their villages. 
    37: Sanan and Hadassa and Magdalgad, 
    38: Delean and Masepha and Jecthel, 
    39: Lachis and Bascath and Eglon, 
    40: Chebbon and Leheman and Cethlis,
    41: And Gideroth and Bethdagon and Naama and Maceda: sixteen cities, and their villages. 
    42: Labana and Ether and Asan, 
    43: Jephtha and Esna and Nesib, 
    44: And Ceila and Achzib and Maresa: nine cities, and their villages. 
    45: Accaron with the towns and villages thereof.
    46: From Accaron even to the sea: all places that lie towards Azotus and the villages thereof. 
    47: Azotus with its towns and villages. Gaza with its towns and villages, even to the torrent of Egypt, and the great sea that is the border thereof. 
    48: And in the mountain Samir and Jether and Socoth, 
    49: And Danna and Cariath-senna, this is Dabir: 
    50: Anab and Istemo and Anim,
    51: Gosen and Olon and Gilo: eleven cities and their villages. 
    52: Arab and Ruma and Esaan, 
    53: And Janum and Beththaphua and Apheca, 
    54: Athmatha and Cariath-Arbe, this is Hebron and Sior: nine cities and their villages. 
    55: Maon and Carmel and Ziph and Jota,
    56: Jezrael and Jucadam and Zanoe, 
    57: Accain, Gabaa and Thamna: ten cities and their villages. 
    58: Halhul, and Bessur, and Gedor, 
    59: Mareth, and Bethanoth, and Eltecon: six cities and their villages. 
    60: Cariathbaal, the same is Cariathiarim, the city of woods, and Arebba: two cities and their villages.
    61: In the desert Betharaba, Meddin and Sachacha, 
    62: And Nebsan, and the city of salt, and Engaddi: six cities and their villages. 
    63: But the children of Juda could not destroy the Jebusite that dwelt in Jerusalem: and the Jebusite dwelt with the children of Juda in Jerusalem until this present day.

  Chapter 16.

    1: And the lot of the sons of Joseph fell from the Jordan over against Jericho and the waters thereof, on the east: the wilderness which goeth up from Jericho to the mountain of Bethel: 
    2: And goeth out from Bethel to Luza: and passeth the border of Archi, to Ataroth, 
    3: And goeth down westward, by the border of Jephleti, unto the borders of Beth-horon the nether, and to Gazer: and the countries of it are ended by the great sea: 
    4: And Manasses and Ephraim the children of Joseph possessed it. 
    5: And the border of the children of Ephraim was according to their kindreds: and their possession towards the east was Ataroth-addar unto Beth-horon the upper.
    6: And the confines go out unto the sea: but Machmethath looketh to the north, and it goeth round the borders eastward into Thanath-selo: and passeth along on the east side to Janoe. 
    7: And it goeth down from Janoe into Ataroth and Naaratha: and it cometh to Jericho, and goeth out to the Jordan. 
    8: From Taphua it passeth on towards the sea into the valley of reeds, and the goings out thereof are at the most salt sea. This is the possession of the tribe of the children of Ephraim by their families. 
    9: And there were cities with their villages separated for the children of Ephraim in the midst of the possession of the children of Manasses. 
    10: And the children of Ephraim slew not the Chanaanite, who dwelt in Gazer: and the Chanaanite dwelt in the midst of Ephraim until this day, paying tribute.

End of day 52.