Day 202:

Reading Sirach, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: Be not jealous over the wife of thy bosom, lest she shew in thy regard the malice of a wicked lesson. 
    2: Give not the power of thy soul to a woman, lest she enter upon thy strength, and thou be confounded. 
    3: Look not upon a woman that hath a mind for many: lest thou fall into her snares. 
    4: Use not much the company of her that is a dancer, and hearken not to her, lest thou perish by the force of her charms. 
    5: Gaze not upon a maiden, lest her beauty be a stumblingblock to thee.
    6: Give not thy soul to harlots in any point: lest thou destroy thyself and thy inheritance. 
    7: Look not round about thee in the ways of the city, nor wander up and down in the streets thereof. 
    8: Turn away thy face from a woman dressed up, and gaze not about upon another's beauty. 
    9: For many have perished by the beauty of a woman, and hereby lust is enkindled as a fire. 
    10: Every woman that is a harlot, shall be trodden upon as dung in the way.
    11: Many by admiring the beauty of another man's wife, have become reprobate, for her conversation burneth as fire. 
    12: Sit not at all with another man's wife, nor repose upon the bed with her: 
    13: And strive not with her over wine, lest thy heart decline towards her, and by thy blood thou fall into destruction. 
    14: Forsake not an old friend, for the new will not be like to him. 
    15: A new friend is as new wine: it shall grow old, and thou shalt drink it with pleasure.
    16: Envy not the glory and riches of a sinner: for thou knowest not what his ruin shall be. 
    17: Be not pleased with the wrong done by the unjust, knowing that even to hell the wicked shall not please. 
    18: Keep thee far from the man that hath power to kill, so thou shalt not suspect the fear of death. 
    19: And if thou come to him, commit no fault, lest he take away thy life. 
    20: Know it to be a communication with death: for thou art going in the midst of snares, and walking upon the arms of them that are grieved:
    21: According to thy power beware of thy neighbour, and treat with the wise and prudent. 
    22: Let just men be thy guests, and let thy glory be in the fear of God. 
    23: And let the thought of God be in thy mind, and all thy discourse on the commandments of the Highest. 
    24: Works shall be praised for the hand of the artificers, and the prince of the people for the wisdom of his speech, but the word of the ancients for the sense. 
    25: A man full of tongue is terrible in his city, and he that is rash in his word shall be hateful.

  Chapter 10.

    1: A wise judge shall judge his people, and the government of a prudent man shall be steady. 
    2: As the judge of the people is himself, so also are his ministers: and what manner of man the ruler of a city is, such also are they that dwell therein. 
    3: An unwise king shall be the ruin of his people: and cities shall be inhabited through the prudence of the rulers. 
    4: The power of the earth is in the hand of God, and in his time he will raise up a profitable ruler over it. 
    5: The prosperity of man is in the hand of God, and upon the person of the scribe he shall lay his honour.
    6: Remember not any injury done thee by thy neighbour, and do thou nothing by deeds of injury. 
    7: Pride is hateful before God and men: and all iniquity of nations is execrable. 
    8: A kingdom is translated from one people to another, because of injustices, and wrongs, and injuries, and divers deceits. 
    9: But nothing is more wicked than the covetous man. Why is earth and ashes proud? 
    10: There is not a more wicked thing than to love money: for such a one setteth even his own soul to sale: because while he liveth he hath cast away his bowels.
    11: All power is of short life. A long sickness is troublesome to the physician. 
    12: The physician cutteth off a short sickness: so also a king is today, and tomorrow he shall die. 
    13: For when a man shall die, he shall inherit serpents, and beasts, and worms. 
    14: The beginning of the pride of man, is to fall off from God: 
    15: Because his heart is departed from him that made him: for pride is the beginning of all sin: he that holdeth it, shall be filled with maledictions, and it shall ruin him in the end.
    16: Therefore hath the Lord disgraced the assemblies of the wicked, and hath utterly destroyed them. 
    17: God hath overturned the thrones of proud princes, and hath set up the meek in their stead. 
    18: God hath made the roots of proud nations to wither, and hath planted the humble of these nations. 
    19: The Lord hath overthrown the lands of the Gentiles, and hath destroyed them even to the foundation. 
    20: He hath made some of them to wither away, and hath destroyed them, and hath made the memory of them to cease from the earth.
    21: God hath abolished the memory of the proud, and hath preserved the memory of them that are humble in mind. 
    22: Pride was not made for men: nor wrath for the race of women. 
    23: That seed of men shall be honoured, which feareth God: but that seed shall be dishonoured, which transgresseth the commandments of the Lord. 
    24: In the midst of brethren their chief is honourable: so shall they that fear the Lord, be in his eyes. 
    25: The fear of God is the glory of the rich, and of the honourable, and of the poor:
    26: Despise not a just man that is poor, and do not magnify a sinful man that is rich. 
    27: The great man, and the judge, and the mighty is in honour: and there is none greater than he that feareth God. 
    28: They that are free shall serve a servant that is wise: and a man that is prudent and well instructed will not murmur when he is reproved; and he that is ignorant, shall not be honoured. 
    29: Extol not thyself in doing thy work, and linger not in the time of distress: 
    30: Better is he that laboureth, and aboundeth in all things, than he that boasteth himself and wanteth bread.
    31: My son, keep thy soul in meekness, and give it honour according to its desert. 
    32: Who will justify him that sinneth against his own soul? and who will honour him that dishonoureth his own soul? 
    33: The poor man is glorified by his discipline and fear: and there is a man that is honoured for his wealth. 
    34: But he that is glorified in poverty, how much more in wealth? and he that is glorified in wealth, let him fear poverty.

  Chapter 11.

    1: The wisdom of the humble shall exalt his head, and shall make him sit in the midst of great men. 
    2: Praise not a man for his beauty, neither despise a man for his look. 
    3: The bee is small among flying things, but her fruit hath the chiefest sweetness. 
    4: Glory not in apparel at any time, and be not exalted in the day of thy honour: for the works of the Highest only are wonderful, and his works are glorious, and secret, and hidden. 
    5: Many tyrants have sat on the throne, and he whom no man would think on, hath worn the crown.
    6: Many mighty men have been greatly brought down, and the glorious have been delivered into the hand of others. 
    7: Before thou inquire, blame no man: and when thou hast inquired, reprove justly. 
    8: Before thou hear, answer not a word: and interrupt not others in the midst of their discourse. 
    9: Strive not in a matter which doth not concern thee, and sit not in judgment with sinners. 
    10: My son, meddle not with many matters: and if thou be rich, thou shalt not be free from sin: for if thou pursue after thou shalt not overtake: and if thou run before thou shalt not escape.
    11: There is an ungodly man that laboureth, and maketh haste, and is in sorrow, and is so much the more in want. 
    12: Again, there is an inactive man that wanteth help, is very weak in ability, and full of poverty: 
    13: Yet the eye of God hath looked upon him for good, and hath lifted him up from his low estate, and hath exalted his head: and many have wondered at him, and have glorified God. 
    14: Good things and evil, life and death, poverty and riches, are from God. 
    15: Wisdom and discipline, and the knowledge of the law are with God. Love and the ways of good things are with him.
    16: Error and darkness are created with sinners: and they that glory in evil things, grow old in evil. 
    17: The gift of God abideth with the just, and his advancement shall have success for ever. 
    18: There is one that is enriched by living sparingly, and this is the portion of his reward. 
    19: In that he saith: I have found me rest, and now I will eat of my goods alone: 
    20: And he knoweth not what time shall pass, and that death approacheth, and that he must leave all to others, and shall die.
    21: Be steadfast in thy covenant, and be conversant therein, and grow old in the work of thy commandments. 
    22: Abide not in the works of sinners. But trust in God, and stay in thy place. 
    23: For it is easy in the eyes of God on a sudden to make the poor man rich. 
    24: The blessing of God maketh haste to reward the just, and in a swift hour his blessing beareth fruit. 
    25: Say not: What need I, and what good shall I have by this?
    26: Say not: I am sufficient for myself: and what shall I be made worse by this? 
    27: In the day of good things be not unmindful of evils: and in the day of evils be not unmindful of good things: 
    28: For it is easy before God in the day of death to reward every one according to his ways. 
    29: The affliction of an hour maketh one forget great delights, and in the end of a man is the disclosing of his works. 
    30: Praise not any man before death, for a man is known by his children.
    31: Bring not every man into thy house: for many are the snares of the deceitful. 
    32: For as corrupted bowels send forth stinking breath, and as the partridge is brought into the cage, and as the roe into the snare: so also is the heart of the proud, and as a spy that looketh on the fall of his neighbour. 
    33: For he lieth in wait and turneth good into evil, and on the elect he will lay a blot. 
    34: Of one spark cometh a great fire, and of one deceitful man much blood: and a sinful man lieth in wait for blood. 
    35: Take heed to thyself of a mischievous man, for he worketh evils: lest he bring upon thee reproach for ever.
    36: Receive a stranger in, and he shall overthrow thee with a whirlwind, and shall turn thee out of thy own.

  Chapter 12.

    1: If thou do good, know to whom thou dost it, and there shall be much thanks for thy good deeds. 
    2: Do good to the just, and thou shalt find great recompense: and if not of him, assuredly of the Lord. 
    3: For there is no good for him that is always occupied in evil, and that giveth no alms: for the Highest hateth sinners, and hath mercy on the penitent. 
    4: Give to the merciful and uphold not the sinner: God will repay vengeance to the ungodly and to sinners, and keep them against the day of vengeance. 
    5: Give to the good, and receive not a sinner.
    6: Do good to the humble, and give not to the ungodly: hold back thy bread, and give it not to him, lest thereby he overmaster thee. 
    7: For thou shalt receive twice as much evil for all the good thou shalt have done to him: for the Highest also hateth sinners, and will repay vengeance to the ungodly. 
    8: A friend shall not be known in prosperity, and an enemy shall not be hidden in adversity. 
    9: In the prosperity of a man, his enemies are grieved: and a friend is known in his adversity. 
    10: Never trust thy enemy: for as a brass pot his wickedness rusteth:
    11: Though he humble himself and go crouching, yet take good heed and beware of him. 
    12: Set him not by thee, neither let him sit on thy right hand, lest he turn into thy place, and seek to take thy seat: and at the last thou acknowledge my words, and be pricked with my sayings. 
    13: Who will pity an enchanter struck by a serpent, or any that come near wild beasts? so is it with him that keepeth company with a wicked man, and is involved in his sins. 
    14: For an hour he will abide with thee: but if thou begin to decline, he will not endure it. 
    15: An enemy speaketh sweetly with his lips, but in his heart he lieth in wait, to throw thee into a pit.
    16: An enemy weepeth with his eyes: but if he find an opportunity he will not be satisfied with blood: 
    17: And if evils come upon thee, thou shalt find him there first. 
    18: An enemy hath tears in his eyes, and while he pretendeth to help thee, will undermine thy feet. 
    19: He will shake his head, and clap his hands, and whisper much, and change his countenance.

End of day 202.