Day 166:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['89', '90', '91', '92']:

  Chapter 89.

    1: A prayer of Moses the man of God. Lord, thou hast been our refuge from generation to generation. 
    2: Before the mountains were made, or the earth and the world was formed; from eternity and to eternity thou art God. 
    3: Turn not man away to be brought low: and thou hast said: Be converted, O ye sons of men. 
    4: For a thousand years in thy sight are as yesterday, which is past. And as a watch in the night, 
    5: Things that are counted nothing, shall their years be.
    6: In the morning man shall grow up like grass; in the morning he shall flourish and pass away: in the evening he shall fall, grow dry, and wither. 
    7: For in thy wrath we have fainted away: and are troubled in thy indignation. 
    8: Thou hast set our iniquities before thy eyes: our life in the light of thy countenance. 
    9: For all our days are spent; and in thy wrath we have fainted away. Our years shall be considered as a spider: 
    10: The days of our years in them are threescore and ten years. But if in the strong they be fourscore years: and what is more of them is labour and sorrow. For mildness is come upon us: and we shall be corrected.
    11: Who knoweth the power of thy anger, and for thy fear 
    12: Can number thy wrath? So make thy right hand known: and men learned in heart, in wisdom. 
    13: Return, O Lord, how long? and be entreated in favour of thy servants. 
    14: We are filled in the morning with thy mercy: and we have rejoiced, and are delighted all our days. 
    15: We have rejoiced for the days in which thou hast humbled us: for the years in which we have seen evils.
    16: Look upon thy servants and upon their works: and direct their children. 
    17: And let the brightness of the Lord our God be upon us: and direct thou the works of our hands over us; yea, the work of our hands do thou direct.

  Chapter 90.

    1: The praise of a canticle for David. He that dwelleth in the aid of the most High, shall abide under the protection of the God of Jacob. 
    2: He shall say to the Lord: Thou art my protector, and my refuge: my God, in him will I trust. 
    3: For he hath delivered me from the snare of the hunters: and from the sharp word. 
    4: He will overshadow thee with his shoulders: and under his wings thou shalt trust. 
    5: His truth shall compass thee with a shield: thou shalt not be afraid of the terror of the night.
    6: Of the arrow that flieth in the day, of the business that walketh about in the dark: of invasion, or of the noonday devil. 
    7: A thousand shall fall at thy side, and ten thousand at thy right hand: but it shall not come nigh thee. 
    8: But thou shalt consider with thy eyes: and shalt see the reward of the wicked. 
    9: Because thou, O Lord, art my hope: thou hast made the most High thy refuge. 
    10: There shall no evil come to thee: nor shall the scourge come near thy dwelling.
    11: For he hath given his angels charge over thee; to keep thee in all thy ways. 
    12: In their hands they shall bear thee up: lest thou dash thy foot against a stone. 
    13: Thou shalt walk upon the asp and the basilisk: and thou shalt trample under foot the lion and the dragon. 
    14: Because he hoped in me I will deliver him: I will protect him because he hath known my name. 
    15: He shall cry to me, and I will hear him: I am with him in tribulation, I will deliver him, and I will glorify him.
    16: I will fill him with length of days; and I will shew him my salvation.

  Chapter 91.

    1: A psalm of a canticle on the sabbath day. 
    2: It is good to give praise to the Lord: and to sing to thy name, O most High. 
    3: To shew forth thy mercy in the morning, and thy truth in the night: 
    4: Upon an instrument of ten strings, upon the psaltery: with a canticle upon the harp. 
    5: For thou hast given me, O Lord, a delight in thy doings: and in the works of thy hands I shall rejoice.
    6: O Lord, how great are thy works! thy thoughts are exceeding deep. 
    7: The senseless man shall not know: nor will the fool understand these things. 
    8: When the wicked shall spring up as grass: and all the workers of iniquity shall appear: That they may perish for ever and ever: 
    9: But thou, O Lord, art most high for evermore. 
    10: For behold thy enemies, O Lord, for behold thy enemies shall perish: and all the workers of iniquity shall be scattered.
    11: But my horn shall be exalted like that of the unicorn: and my old age in plentiful mercy. 
    12: My eye also hath looked down upon my enemies: and my ear shall hear of the downfall of the malignant that rise up against me. 
    13: The just shall flourish like the palm tree: he shall grow up like the cedar of Libanus. 
    14: They that are planted in the house of the Lord shall flourish in the courts of the house of our God. 
    15: They shall still increase in a fruitful old age: and shall be well treated,
    16: That they may shew, That the Lord our God is righteous, and there is no iniquity in him.

  Chapter 92.

    1: The Lord hath reigned, he is clothed with beauty: the Lord is clothed with strength, and hath girded himself. For he hath established the world which shall not be moved. 
    2: Thy throne is prepared from of old: thou art from everlasting. 
    3: The floods have lifted up, O Lord: the floods have lifted up their voice. The floods have lifted up their waves, 
    4: With the noise of many waters. Wonderful are the surges of the sea: wonderful is the Lord on high. 
    5: Thy testimonies are become exceedingly credible: holiness becometh thy house, O Lord, unto length of days.

End of day 166.