Day 213:

Reading Isaiah, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: The vision of Isaias the son of Amos, which he saw concerning Juda and Jerusalem in the days of Ozias, Joathan, Achaz, and Ezechias, kings of Juda. 
    2: Hear, O ye heavens, and give ear, O earth, for the Lord hath spoken. I have brought up children, and exalted them: but they have despised me. 
    3: The ox knoweth his owner, and the ass his master's crib: but Israel hath not known me, and my people hath not understood. 
    4: Woe to the sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, a wicked seed, ungracious children: they have forsaken the Lord, they have blasphemed the Holy One of Israel, they are gone away backwards. 
    5: For what shall I strike you any more, you that increase transgression? the whole head is sick, and the whole heart is sad.
    6: From the sole of the foot unto the top of the head, there is no soundness therein: wounds and bruises and swelling sores: they are not bound up, nor dressed, nor fomented with oil. 
    7: Your land is desolate, your cities are burnt with fire: your country strangers devour before your face, and it shall be desolate as when wasted by enemies. 
    8: And the daughter of Sion shall be left as a covert in a vineyard, and as a lodge in a garden of cucumbers, and as a city that is laid waste. 
    9: Except the Lord of hosts had left us seed, we had been as Sodom, and we should have been like to Gomorrha. 
    10: Hear the word of the Lord, ye rulers of Sodom, give ear to the law of our God, ye people of Gomorrha.
    11: To what purpose do you offer me the multitude of your victims, saith the Lord? I am full, I desire not holocausts of rams, and fat of fatlings, and blood of calves, and lambs, and buck goats. 
    12: When you came to appear before me, who required these things at your hands, that you should walk in my courts? 
    13: Offer sacrifice no more in vain: incense is an abomination to me. The new moons, and the sabbaths, and other festivals I will not abide, your assemblies are wicked. 
    14: My soul hateth your new moons, and your solemnities: they are become troublesome to me, I am weary of bearing them. 
    15: And when you stretch forth your hands, I will turn away my eyes from you: and when you multiply prayer, I will not hear: for your hands are full of blood.
    16: Wash yourselves, be clean, take away the evil of your devices from my eyes: cease to do perversely, 
    17: Learn to do well: seek judgment, relieve the oppressed, judge for the fatherless, defend the widow. 
    18: And then come, and accuse me, saith the Lord: if your sins be as scarlet, they shall be made as white as snow: and if they be red as crimson, they shall be white as wool. 
    19: If you be willing, and will hearken to me, you shall eat the good things of the land. 
    20: But if you will not, and will provoke me to wrath: the sword shall devour you because the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it.
    21: How is the faithful city, that was full of judgment, become a harlot? justice dwelt in it, but now murderers. 
    22: Thy silver is turned into dross: thy wine is mingled with water. 
    23: Thy princes are faithless, companions of thieves: they all love bribes, the run after rewards. They judge not for the fatherless: and the widow's cometh not in to them. 
    24: Therefore saith the Lord the God of hosts, the mighty one of Israel: Ah! I will comfort myself over my adversaries: and I will be revenged of my enemies. 
    25: And I will turn my hand to thee, and I will clean purge away thy dross, and I will take away all thy tin.
    26: And I will restore thy judges as they were before, and thy counsellors as of old. After this thou shalt be called the city of the just, a faithful city. 
    27: Sion shall be redeemed in judgment, and they shall bring her back in justice. 
    28: And he shall destroy the wicked, and the sinners together: and they that have forsaken the Lord, shall be consumed. 
    29: For they shall be confounded for the idols, to which they have sacrificed: and you shall be ashamed of the gardens which you have chosen. 
    30: When you shall be as an oak with the leaves falling off, and as a garden without water.
    31: And your strength shall be as the ashes of tow, and your work as a spark: and both shall burn together, and there shall be none to quench it.

  Chapter 2.

    1: The word that Isaias the son of Amos saw, concerning Juda and Jerusalem. 
    2: And in the last days the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be prepared on the top of mountains, and it shall be exalted above the hills, and all nations shall flow unto it. 
    3: And many people shall go, and say: Come and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, and to the house of the God of Jacob, and he will teach us his ways, and we will walk in his paths: for the law shall come forth from Sion, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. 
    4: And he shall judge the Gentiles, and rebuke many people: and they shall turn their swords into ploughshares, and their spears into sickles: nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they be exercised any more to war. 
    5: O house of Jacob, come ye, and let us walk in the light of the Lord.
    6: For thou hast cast off thy people, the house of Jacob: because they are filled as in times past, and have had soothsayers as the Philistines, and have adhered to strange children. 
    7: Their land is filled with silver and gold: and there is no end of their treasures. 
    8: And their land is filled with horses: and their chariots are innumerable. Their land also is full of idols: they have adored the work of their own hands, which their own fingers have made. 
    9: And man hath bowed himself down, and man hath been debased: therefore forgive them not. 
    10: Enter thou into the rock, and hide thee in the pit from the face of the fear of the Lord, and from the glory of his majesty.
    11: The lofty eyes of man are humbled, and the haughtiness of men shall be made to stoop: and the Lord alone shall be exalted in that day. 
    12: Because the day of the Lord of hosts shall be upon every one that is proud and highminded, and upon every one that is arrogant, and he shall be humbled. 
    13: And upon all the tall and lofty cedars of Libanus, and upon all the oaks of Basan. 
    14: And upon all the high mountains, and upon all the elevated hills. 
    15: And upon every high tower, and every fenced wall.
    16: And upon all the ships of Tharsis, and upon all that is fair to behold. 
    17: And the loftiness of men shall be bowed down, and the haughtiness of men shall be humbled, and the Lord alone shall be exalted in that day. 
    18: And idols shall be utterly destroyed. 
    19: And they shall go into the holes of rocks, and into the caves of the earth from the face of the fear of the Lord, and from the glory of his majesty, when he shall rise up to strike the earth. 
    20: In that day a man shall cast away his idols of silver, and his idols of gold, which he had made for himself to adore, moles and bats.
    21: And he shall go into the clefts of rocks, and into the holes of stones from the face of the fear of the Lord, and from the glory of his majesty, when he shall rise up to strike the earth. 
    22: Cease ye therefore from the man, whose breath is in his nostrils, for he is reputed high.

  Chapter 3.

    1: For behold the sovereign the Lord of hosts shall take away from Jerusalem, and from Juda the valiant and the strong, the whole strength of bread, and the whole strength of water. 
    2: The strong man, and the man of war, the judge, and the prophet, and the cunning man, and the ancient. 
    3: The captain over fifty, and the honourable in countenance, and the counsellor, and the architect, and the skillful in eloquent speech. 
    4: And I will give children to be their princes, and the effeminate shall rule over them. 
    5: And the people shall rush one upon another, and every man against his neighbour: the child shall make it tumult against the ancient, and the base against the honourable.
    6: For a man shall take hold or his brother, one of the house of his father, saying: Thou hast a garment, be thou our ruler, and let this ruin be under thy hand. 
    7: In that day he shall answer, saying: I am no healer, and in my house there is no bread, nor clothing: make me not ruler of the people. 
    8: For Jerusalem is ruined, and Juda is fallen: because their tongue, and their devices are against the Lord, to provoke the eyes of his majesty. 
    9: The shew of their countenance hath answered them: and they have proclaimed abroad their sin as Sodom, and they have not hid it: woe to their souls, for evils are rendered to them. 
    10: Say to the just man that it is well, for he shall eat the fruit of his doings.
    11: Woe to the wicked unto evil: for the reward of his hands shall be given him. 
    12: As for my people, their oppressors have stripped them, and women have ruled over them. O my people, they that call thee blessed, the same deceive thee, and destroy the way of thy steps. 
    13: The Lord standeth up to judge, and he standeth to judge the people. 
    14: The Lord will enter into judgment with the ancients of his people, and its princes: for you have devoured the vineyard, and the spoil of the poor is in your house. 
    15: Why do you consume my people, and grind the faces of the poor? saith the Lord the God of hosts.
    16: And the Lord said: Because the daughters of Sion are haughty, and have walked with stretched out necks, and wanton glances of their eyes, and made a noise as they walked with their feet and moved in a set pace: 
    17: The Lord will make bald the crown of the head of the daughters of Sion, and the Lord will discover their hair. 
    18: In that day the Lord will take away the ornaments of shoes, and little moons, 
    19: And chains and necklaces, and bracelets, and bonnets, 
    20: And bodkins, and ornaments of the legs, and tablets, and sweet balls, and earrings,
    21: And rings, and jewels hanging on the forehead, 
    22: And changes of apparel, and short cloaks, and fine linen, and crisping pins, 
    23: And looking-glasses, and lawns, and headbands, and fine veils. 
    24: And instead of a sweet smell there shall be stench, and instead of a girdle, a cord, and instead of curled hair, baldness, and instead of a stomacher, haircloth. 
    25: Thy fairest men also shall fall by the sword, and thy valiant ones in battle.
    26: And her gates shall lament and mourn, and she shall sit desolate on the ground.

  Chapter 4.

    1: And in that day seven women shall take hold of one man, saying: We will eat our own bread, and wear our own apparel: only let us be called by thy name, take away our reproach. 
    2: In that day the bud of the Lord shall be in magnificence and glory, and the fruit of the earth shall be high, and a great joy to them that shall have escaped of Israel. 
    3: And it shall come to pass, that every one that shall be left in Sion, and that shall remain in Jerusalem, shall be called holy, every one that is written in life in Jerusalem. 
    4: If the Lord shall wash away the filth of the daughters of Sion, and shall wash away the blood of Jerusalem out of the midst thereof, by the spirit of judgment, and by the spirit of burning. 
    5: And the Lord will create upon every place of mount Sion, and where he is called upon, a cloud by day, and a smoke and the brightness of a flaming fire in the night: for over all the glory shall be a protection.
    6: And there shall be a tabernacle for a shade in the daytime from the heat, and for a security and covert from the whirlwind, and from rain.

End of day 213.