Day 223:

Reading Isaiah, chapters ['41', '42', '43', '44']:

  Chapter 41.

    1: Let the islands keep silence before me, and the nations take new strength: let them come near, and then speak, let us come near to judgment together. 
    2: Who hath raised up the just one from the east, hath called him to follow him? he shall give the nations in his sight, and he shall rule over kings: he shall give them as the dust to his sword, as stubble driven by the wind, to his bow. 
    3: He shall pursue them, he shall pass in peace, no path shall appear after his feet. 
    4: Who hath wrought and done these things, calling the generations from the beginning? I the Lord, I am the first and the last. 
    5: The islands saw it, and feared, the ends of the earth were astonished, they drew near, and came.
    6: Every one shall help his neighbour, and shall say to his brother: Be of good courage. 
    7: The coppersmith striking with the hammer encouraged him that forged at that time, saying: It is ready for soldering: and he strengthened it with nails, that it should not be moved. 
    8: But thou Israel, art my servant, Jacob whom I have chosen, the seed of Abraham my friend: 
    9: In whom I have taken thee from the ends of the earth, and from the remote parts thereof have called thee, and said to thee: Thou art my servant, I have chosen thee, and have not cast thee away. 
    10: Fear not, for I am with thee: turn not aside, for I am thy God: I have strengthened thee, and have helped thee, and the right hand of my just one hath upheld thee.
    11: Behold all that fight against thee shall be confounded and ashamed, they shall be as nothing, and the men shall perish that strive against thee. 
    12: Thou shalt seek them, and shalt not find the men that resist thee: they shall be as nothing: and as a thing consumed the men that war against thee. 
    13: For I am the Lord thy God, who take thee by the hand, and say to thee: Fear not, I have helped thee. 
    14: Fear not, thou worm of Jacob, you that are dead of Israel: I have helped thee, saith the Lord: and thy Redeemer the Holy One of Israel. 
    15: I have made thee as a new thrashing wain, with teeth like a saw: thou shall thrash the mountains, and break them in pieces: and shalt make the hills as chaff.
    16: Thou shalt fan them, and the wind shall carry them away, and the whirlwind shall scatter them: and thou shalt rejoice in the Lord, in the Holy One of Israel thou shalt be joyful. 
    17: The needy and the poor seek for waters, and there are none: their tongue hath been dry with thirst. I the Lord will hear them, I the God of Israel will not forsake them. 
    18: I will open rivers in the high hills, and fountains in the midst of the plains: I will turn the desert into pools of waters, and the impassable land into streams of waters. 
    19: I will plant in the wilderness the cedar, and the thorn, and the myrtle, and the olive tree: I will set in the desert the fir tree, the elm, and the box tree together: 
    20: That they may see and know, and consider, and understand together that the hand of the Lord hath done this, and the Holy One of Israel hath created it.
    21: Bring your cause near, saith the Lord: bring hither, if you have any thing to allege, saith the King of Jacob. 
    22: Let them come, and tell us all things that are to come: tell us the former things what they were: and we will set our heart upon them, and shall know the latter end of them, and tell us the things that are to come. 
    23: shew the things that are to come hereafter, and we shall know that ye are gods. Do ye also good or evil, if you can: and let us speak, and see together. 
    24: Behold, you are of nothing, and your work of that which hath no being: he that hath chosen you is an abomination. 
    25: I have raised up one from the north, and he shall come from the rising of the sun: he shall call upon my name, and he shall make princes to be as dirt, and as the potter treading clay.
    26: Who hath declared from the beginning, that we may know: and from time of old, that we may say: Thou art just. There is none that sheweth, nor that foretelleth, nor that heareth your words. 
    27: The first shall say to Sion: Behold they are here, and to Jerusalem I will give an evangelist. 
    28: And I saw, and there was no one even among them to consult, or who, when I asked, could answer a word. 
    29: Behold they are all in the wrong, and their works are vain: their idols are wind and vanity.

  Chapter 42.

    1: Behold my servant, I will uphold him: my elect, my soul delighteth in him: I have given my spirit upon him, he shall bring forth judgment to the Gentiles. 
    2: He shall not cry, nor have respect to person, neither shall his voice be heard abroad. 
    3: The bruised reed he shall not break, and smoking flax he shall not quench: he shall bring forth judgment unto truth. 
    4: He shall not be sad, nor troublesome, till he set judgment in the earth: and the islands shall wait for his law. 
    5: Thus saith the Lord God that created the heavens, and stretched them out: that established the earth, and the things that spring out of it: that giveth breath to the people upon it, and spirit to them that tread thereon.
    6: I the Lord have called thee in justice, and taken thee by the hand, and preserved thee. And I have given thee for a covenant of the people, for a light of the Gentiles: 
    7: That thou mightest open the eyes of the blind, and bring forth the prisoner out of prison, and them that sit in darkness out of the prison house. 
    8: I the Lord, this is my name: I will not give my glory to another, nor my praise to graven things. 
    9: The things that were first, behold they are come: and new things do I declare: before they spring forth, I will make you head them. 
    10: Sing ye to the Lord a new song, his praise is from the ends of the earth: you that go down to the sea, and all that are therein: ye islands, and ye inhabitants of them.
    11: Let the desert and the cities thereof be exalted: Cedar shall dwell in houses: ye inhabitants of Petra, give praise, they shall cry from the top of the mountains. 
    12: They shall give glory to the Lord, and shall declare his praise in the islands. 
    13: The Lord shall go forth as a mighty man, as a man of war shall he stir up zeal: he shall shout and cry: he shall prevail against his enemies. 
    14: I have always held my peace, I have I kept silence, I have been patient, I will speak now as a woman in labour: I will destroy, and swallow up at once. 
    15: I will lay waste the mountains and hills, and will make all their grass to wither: and I will turn rivers into islands, and will dry up the standing pools.
    16: And I will lead the blind into the way which they know not: and in the paths which they were ignorant of I will make them walk: I will make darkness light before them, and crooked things straight: these things have I done to them, and have not forsaken them. 
    17: They are turned back: let them be greatly confounded, that trust in a graven thing, that say to a molten thing: You are our god. 
    18: Hear, ye deaf, and, ye blind, behold that you may see. 
    19: Who is blind, but my servant? or deaf, but he to whom I have sent my messengers? Who is blind, but he that is sold? or who is blind, but the servant of the Lord? 
    20: Thou that seest many things, wilt thou not observe them? thou that hast ears open, wilt thou not hear?
    21: And the Lord was willing to sanctify him, and to magnify the law, and exalt it. 
    22: But this is a people that is robbed and wasted: they are all the snare of young men, and they are hid in the houses of prisons: they are made a prey, and there is none to deliver them: a spoil, and there is none that saith: Restore. 
    23: Who is there among you that will give ear to this, that will attend and hearken for times to come? 
    24: Who hath given Jacob for a spoil, and Israel to robbers? hath not the Lord himself, against whom we have sinned? And they would not walk in his ways, and they have not hearkened to his law. 
    25: And he hath poured out upon him the indignation of his fury, and a strong battle, and hath burnt him round about, and he knew not: and set him on fire, and he understood not.

  Chapter 43.

    1: And now thus saith the Lord that created thee, O Jacob, and formed thee, O Israel: Fear not, for I have redeemed thee, and called thee by thy name: thou art mine. 
    2: When thou shalt pass through the waters, I will be with thee, and the rivers shall not cover thee: when thou shalt walk in the fire, thou shalt not be burnt, and the flames shall not burn in thee: 
    3: For I am the Lord thy God, the Holy One of Israel, thy Saviour: I have given Egypt for thy atonement, Ethiopia and Saba for thee. 
    4: Since thou becamest honourable in my eyes, thou art glorious: I have loved thee, and I will give men for thee, and people for thy life. 
    5: Fear not, for I am with thee: I will. bring thy seed from the east, and gather thee from the west.
    6: I will say to the north: Give up: and to the south: Keep not back: bring my sons from afar, and my daughters from the ends of the earth. 
    7: And every one that calleth upon my name, I have created him for my glory, I have formed him, and made him. 
    8: Bring forth the people that are blind, and have eyes: that are deaf, and have ears. 
    9: All the nations are assembled together, and the tribes are gathered: who among you can declare this, and shall make us hear the former things? let them bring forth their witnesses, let them be justified, and hear, and say: It is truth. 
    10: You are my witnesses, saith the Lord, and my servant whom I have chosen: that you may know, and believe me, and understand that I myself am. Before me there was no God formed, and after me there shall be none.
    11: I am, I am the Lord: and there is no saviour besides me. 
    12: I have declared, and have saved. I have made it heard, and there was no strange one among you. You are my witnesses, saith the Lord, and I am God. 
    13: And from the beginning I am the same, and there is none that can deliver out of my hand: I will work, and who shall turn it away? 
    14: Thus saith the Lord your redeemer, the Holy One of Israel: For your sake I sent to Babylon, and have brought down all their bars, and the Chaldeans glorying in their ships. 
    15: I am the Lord your Holy One, the Creator of Israel, your King.
    16: Thus saith the Lord, who made a way in the sea, and a path in the mighty waters. 
    17: Who brought forth the chariot and the horse, the army and the strong: they lay down to sleep together, and they shall not rise again: they are broken as flax, and are extinct. 
    18: Remember not former things, and look not on things of old. 
    19: Behold I do new things, and now they shall spring forth, verily you shall know them: I will make a way in the wilderness, and rivers in the desert. 
    20: The beast of the field shall glorify me, the dragons and the ostriches: because I have given waters in the wilderness, rivers in the desert, to give drink to my people, to my chosen.
    21: This people have I formed for myself, they shall shew forth my praise. 
    22: But thou hast not called upon me, O Jacob, neither hast thou laboured about me, O Israel. 
    23: Thou hast not offered me the ram of thy holocaust, nor hast thou glorified me with thy victims: I have not caused thee to serve with oblations, nor wearied thee with incense. 
    24: Thou hast bought me no sweet cane with money, neither hast thou filled me with the fat of thy victims. But thou hast made me to serve with thy sins, thou hast wearied me with thy iniquities. 
    25: I am, I am he that blot out thy iniquities for my own sake, and I will not remember thy sins.
    26: Put me in remembrance, and let us plead together: tell if thou hast any thing to justify thyself. 
    27: Thy first father sinned, and thy teachers have transgressed against me. 
    28: And I have profaned the holy princes, I have given Jacob to slaughter, and Israel to reproach.

  Chapter 44.

    1: And now hear, O Jacob, my servant, and Israel whom I have chosen. 
    2: Thus saith the Lord that made and formed thee, thy helper from the womb: Fear not, O my servant Jacob, and thou most righteous whom I have chosen. 
    3: For I will pour out waters upon the thirsty ground, and streams upon the dry land: I will pour out my spirit upon thy seed, and my blessing upon thy stock. 
    4: And they shall spring up among the herbs, as willows beside the running waters. 
    5: One shall say: I am the Lord's, and another shall call himself by the name of Jacob, and another shall subscribe with his hand, To the Lord, and surname himself by the name of Israel.
    6: Thus saith the Lord the king of Israel, and his redeemer the Lord of hosts: I am the first, and I am the last, and besides me there is no God. 
    7: Who is like to me? let him call and declare: and let him set before me the order, since I appointed the ancient people: and the things to come, and that shall be hereafter, let them shew unto them. 
    8: Fear ye not, neither be ye troubled, from that time I have made thee to hear, and have declared: you are my witnesses. Is there a God besides me, a maker, whom I have not known? 
    9: The makers of idols are all of them nothing, and their best beloved things shall not profit them. They are their witnesses, that they do not see, nor understand, that they may be ashamed. 
    10: Who hath formed a god, and made a graven thing that is profitable for nothing?
    11: Behold, all the partakers thereof shall be confounded: for the makers are men: they shall all assemble together, they shall stand and fear, and shall be confounded together. 
    12: The smith hath wrought with his file, with coals, and with hammers he hath formed it, and hath wrought with the strength of his arm: he shall hunger and faint, he shall drink no water, and shall be weary. 
    13: The carpenter hath stretched out his rule, he hath formed it with a plane: he hath made it with corners, and hath fashioned it round with the compass: and he hath made the image of a man as it were a beautiful man dwelling in a house. 
    14: He hath cut down cedars, taken the holm, and the oak that stood among the trees of the forest: he hath planted the pine tree, which the rain hath nourished. 
    15: And it hath served men for fuel: he took thereof, and warmed himself: and he kindled it, and baked bread: but of the rest he made a god, and adored it: he made a graven thing, and bowed down before it.
    16: Part of it he burnt with fire, and with part of it he dressed his meat: he boiled pottage, and was filled, and was warmed, and said: Aha, I am warm, I have seen the fire. 
    17: But the residue thereof he made a god, and a graven thing for himself: he boweth down before it, and adoreth it, and prayeth unto it, saying: Deliver me, for thou art my God. 
    18: They have not known, nor understood: for their eyes are covered that they may not see, and that they may not understand with their heart. 
    19: They do not consider in their mind, nor know, nor have the thought to say: I have burnt part of it in the fire, and I have baked bread upon the coals thereof: I have broiled flesh and have eaten, and of the residue thereof shall I make an idol? shall I fall down before the stock of a tree? 
    20: Part thereof is ashes: his foolish heart adoreth it, and he will not save his soul, nor say: Perhaps there is a lie in my right hand.
    21: Remember these things, O Jacob, and Israel, for thou art my servant. I have formed thee, thou art my servant, O Israel, forget me not. 
    22: I have blotted out thy iniquities as a cloud, and thy sins as a mist: return to me, for I have redeemed thee. 
    23: Give praise, O ye heavens, for the Lord hath shewn mercy: shout with joy, ye ends of the earth: ye mountains, resound with praise, thou, O forest, and every tree therein: for the Lord hath redeemed Jacob, and Israel shall be glorified. 
    24: Thus saith the Lord thy redeemer, and thy maker, from the womb: I am the Lord, that make all things, that alone stretch out the heavens, that establish the earth, and there is none with me. 
    25: That make void the tokens of diviners, and make the soothsayers mad. That turn the wise backward, and that, make their knowledge foolish.
    26: That raise up the word of my servant and perform the counsel of my messengers, who say to Jerusalem: Thou shalt be inhabited: and to the cities of Juda: You shall be built, and I will raise up the wastes thereof. 
    27: Who say to the deep: Be thou desolate, and I will dry up thy rivers. 
    28: Who say to Cyrus: Thou art my shepherd, and thou shalt perform all my pleasure. Who say to Jerusalem: Thou shalt be built: and to the temple: Thy foundations shall be laid.

End of day 223.