Day 26:

Reading Leviticus, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: And when the eighth day was come, Moses called Aaron and his sons, and the ancients of Israel, and said to Aaron: 
    2: Take of the herd a calf for sin, and a ram for a holocaust, both without blemish, and offer them before the Lord. 
    3: And to the children of Israel thou shalt say: Take ye a he goat for sin, and a calf, and a lamb, both of a year old, and without blemish for a holocaust, 
    4: Also a bullock and a ram for peace offerings: and immolate them before the Lord, offering for the sacrifice of every one of them flour tempered with oil; for today the Lord will appear to you. 
    5: They brought therefore all things that Moses had commanded before the door of the tabernacle: where when all the multitude stood,
    6: Moses said: This is the word, which the Lord hath commanded: do it, and his glory will appear to you. 
    7: And he said to Aaron: Approach to the altar, and offer sacrifice for thy sin: offer the holocaust, and pray for thyself and for the people: and when thou hast slain the people's victim, pray for them, as the Lord hath commanded. 
    8: And forthwith Aaron, approaching to the altar, immolated the calf for his sin: 
    9: And his sons brought him the blood of it: and he dipped his finger therein, and touched the horns of the altar, and poured the rest at the foot thereof. 
    10: And the fat, and the little kidneys, and the caul of the liver, which are for sin, he burnt upon the altar, as the Lord had commanded Moses:
    11: But the flesh and skins thereof he burnt with fire without the camp. 
    12: He immolated also the victim of holocaust: and his sons brought him the blood thereof, which he poured round about on the altar. 
    13: And the victim being cut into pieces, they brought to him the head and all the members, all which he burnt with fire upon the altar, 
    14: Having first washed the entrails and the feet with water. 
    15: Then offering for the sin of the people, he slew the he goat: and expiating the altar,
    16: He offered the holocaust: 
    17: Adding in the sacrifice the libations, which are offered withal, and burning them upon the altar, besides the ceremonies of the morning holocaust. 
    18: He immolated also the bullock and the ram, the peace offerings of the people: and his sons brought him the blood, which he poured upon the altar round about. 
    19: The fat also of the bullock, and the rump of the ram, and the two little kidneys, with their fat, and the caul of the liver, 
    20: They put upon the breasts. And after the fat was burnt upon the altar,
    21: Aaron separated their breasts, and the right shoulders, elevating them before the Lord, as Moses had commanded. 
    22: And stretching forth his hands to the people, he blessed them. And so the victims for sin, and the holocausts, and the peace offerings being finished, he came down. 
    23: And Moses and Aaron went into the tabernacle of the testimony, and afterwards came forth and blessed the people. And the glory of the Lord appeared to all the multitude: 
    24: And behold a fire, coming forth from the Lord, devoured the holocaust, and the fat that was upon the altar: which when the multitude saw, they praised the Lord, falling on their faces.

  Chapter 10.

    1: And Nadab and Abiu, the sons of Aaron, taking their censers, put fire therein, and incense on it, offering before the Lord strange fire: which was not commanded them. 
    2: And fire coming out from the Lord destroyed them, and they died before the Lord. 
    3: And Moses said to Aaron: This is what the Lord hath spoken: I will be sanctified in them that approach to me, and I will be glorified in the sight of all the people. And when Aaron heard this, he held his peace. 
    4: And Moses called Misael and Elisaphan, the sons of Oziel, the uncle of Aaron, and said to them: Go and take away your brethren from before the sanctuary, and carry them without the camp. 
    5: And they went forthwith and took them as they lay, vested with linen tunicks, and cast them forth, as had been commanded them.
    6: And Moses said to Aaron, and to Eleazar and Ithamar, his sons: Uncover not your heads, and rend not your garments, lest perhaps you die, and indignation come upon all the congregation. Let your brethren, and all the house of Israel, bewail the burning which the Lord has kindled: 
    7: But you shall not go out of the door of the tabernacle, otherwise you shall perish, for the oil of the holy unction is on you. And they did all things according to the precept of Moses. 
    8: The Lord also said to Aaron: 
    9: You shall not drink wine nor any thing that may make drunk, thou nor thy sons, when you enter into the tabernacle of the testimony, lest you die: because it is an everlasting precept through your generations: 
    10: And that you may have knowledge to discern between holy and unholy, between unclean and clean:
    11: And may teach the children of Israel all my ordinances which the Lord hath spoken to them by the hand of Moses. 
    12: And Moses spoke to Aaron, and to Eleazar and Ithamar, his sons that were left: Take the sacrifice that is remaining of the oblation of the Lord, and eat it without leaven beside the altar, because it is holy of holies. 
    13: And you shall eat it in a holy place: which is given to thee and thy sons of the oblations of the Lord, as it hath been commanded me. 
    14: The breast also that is offered, and the shoulder that is separated, you shall eat in a most clean place, thou and thy sons, and thy daughters with thee. For they are set aside for thee and thy children, of the victims of peace offerings of the children of Israel: 
    15: Because they have elevated before the Lord the shoulder and the breast, and the fat that is burnt on the altar, and they belong to thee and to thy sons by a perpetual law, as the Lord hath commanded.
    16: While these things were a doing, when Moses sought for the buck goat, that had been offered for sin, he found it burnt: and being angry with Eleazar and Ithamar, the sons of Aaron that were left, he said: 
    17: Why did you not eat in the holy place the sacrifice for sin, which is most holy, and given to you, that you may bear the iniquity of the people, and may pray for them in the sight of the Lord, 
    18: Especially whereas none of the blood thereof hath been carried within the holy places, and you ought to have eaten it in the sanctuary, as was commanded me? 
    19: Aaron answered: This day hath been offered the victim for sin, and the holocaust before the Lord: and to me what thou seest has happened: how could I eat it, or please the Lord in the ceremonies, having a sorrowful heart? 
    20: Which when Moses had heard he was satisfied.

  Chapter 11.

    1: And the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying: 
    2: Say to the children of Israel: These are the animals which you are to eat of all the living things of the earth. 
    3: Whatsoever hath the hoof divided, and cheweth the cud among the beasts, you shall eat. 
    4: But whatsoever cheweth indeed the cud, and hath a hoof, but divideth it not, as the camel, and others, that you shall not eat, but shall reckon it among the unclean. 
    5: The cherogrillus which cheweth the cud, but divideth not the hoof, is unclean.
    6: The hare also: for that too cheweth the cud, but divideth not the hoof. 
    7: And the swine, which, though it divideth the hoof, cheweth not the cud. 
    8: The flesh of these you shall not eat, nor shall you touch their carcasses, because they are unclean to you. 
    9: These are the things that breed in the waters, and which it is lawful to eat. All that hath fins, and scales, as well in the sea, as in the rivers, and the pools, you shall eat. 
    10: But whatsoever hath not fins and scales, of those things that move and live in the waters, shall be an abomination to you,
    11: And detestable: their flesh you shall not eat, and their carcasses you shall avoid. 
    12: All that have not fins and scales, in the waters, shall be unclean. 
    13: Of birds these are they which you must not eat, and which are to be avoided by you: The eagle, and the griffon, and the osprey, 
    14: And the kite, and the vulture, according to their kind, 
    15: And all that is of the raven kind, according to their likeness.
    16: The ostrich, and the owl, and the larus, and the hawk according to its kind. 
    17: The screech owl, and the cormorant, and the ibis, 
    18: And the swan, and the bittern, and the porphyrion, 
    19: The heron, and the charadrion according to its kind, the houp also, and the bat. 
    20: Of things that fly, whatsoever goeth upon four feet, shall be abominable to you.
    21: But whatsoever walketh upon four feet, but hath the legs behind longer, wherewith it hoppeth upon the earth, 
    22: That you shall eat, as the bruchus in its kind, the attacus, and ophiomachus, and the locust, every one according to their kind. 
    23: But of flying things whatsoever hath four feet only, shall be an abomination to you: 
    24: And whosoever shall touch the carcasses of them, shall be defiled, and shall be unclean until the evening: 
    25: And if it be necessary that he carry any of these things when they are dead, he shall wash his clothes, and shall be unclean until the sun set.
    26: Every beast that hath a hoof, but divideth it not, nor cheweth the cud, shall be unclean: and he that toucheth it, shall be defiled. 
    27: That which walketh upon hands of all animals which go on all four, shall be unclean: he that shall touch their carcasses shall be defiled until evening. 
    28: And he that shall carry such carcasses, shall wash his clothes, and shall be unclean until evening: because all these things are unclean to you. 
    29: These also shall be reckoned among unclean things, of all that move upon the earth, the weasel, and the mouse, and the crocodile, every one according to their kind: 
    30: The shrew, and the chameleon, and the stello, and the lizard, and the mole:
    31: All these are unclean. He that toucheth their carcasses shall be unclean until the evening. 
    32: And upon what thing soever any of their carcasses shall fall, it shall be defiled, whether it be a vessel of wood, or a garment, or skins or haircloths; or any thing in which work is done, they shall be dipped in water, and shall be unclean until the evening, and so afterwards shall be clean. 
    33: But an earthen vessel, into which any of these shall fall, shall be defiled, and therefore is to be broken. 
    34: Any meat which you eat, if water from such a vessel be poured upon it, shall be unclean; and every liquor that is drunk out of any such vessel, shall be unclean. 
    35: And upon whatsoever thing any of these dead beasts shall fall, it shall be unclean: whether it be oven, or pots with feet, they shall be destroyed, and shall be unclean.
    36: But fountains and cisterns, and all gatherings together of waters shall be clean. He that toucheth their carcasses shall be defiled. 
    37: If it fall upon seed corn, it shall not defile it. 
    38: But if any man pour water upon the seed, and afterwards it be touched by the carcasses, it shall be forthwith defiled. 
    39: If any beast die, of which it is lawful for you to eat, he that toucheth the carcass thereof, shall be unclean until the evening: 
    40: And he that eateth or carrieth any thing thereof, shall wash his clothes, and shall be unclean until the evening.
    41: All that creepeth upon the earth shall be abominable, neither shall it be taken for meat. 
    42: Whatsoever goeth upon the breast on four feet, or hath many feet, or traileth on the earth, you shall not eat, because it is abominable. 
    43: Do not defile your souls, nor touch aught thereof, lest you be unclean, 
    44: For I am the Lord your God: be holy because I am holy. Defile not your souls by any creeping thing, that moveth upon the earth. 
    45: For I am the Lord, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, that I might be your God.
    46: You shall be holy, because I am holy. This is the law of beasts and fowls, and of every living creature that moveth in the waters, and creepeth on the earth: 
    47: That you may know the differences of the clean, and unclean, and know what you ought to eat, and what to refuse.

  Chapter 12.

    1: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: 
    2: Speak to the children of Israel, and thou shalt say to them: If a woman having received seed shall bear a man child, she shall be unclean seven days, according to the days of the separation of her flowers. 
    3: And on the eighth day the infant shall be circumcised: 
    4: But she shall remain three and thirty days in the blood of her purification. She shall touch no holy thing, neither shall she enter into the sanctuary, until the days of her purification be fulfilled. 
    5: But if she shall bear a maid child, she shall be unclean two weeks, according to the custom of her monthly courses, and she shall remain in the blood of her purification sixty-six days.
    6: And when the days of her purification are expired, for a son, or for a daughter, she shall bring to the door of the tabernacle of the testimony, a lamb of a year old for a holocaust, and a young pigeon or a turtle for sin, and shall deliver them to the priest: 
    7: Who shall offer them before the Lord, and shall pray for her, and so she shall be cleansed from the issue of her blood. This is the law for her that beareth a man child or a maid child. 
    8: And if her hand find not sufficiency, and she is not able to offer a lamb, she shall take two turtles, or two young pigeons, one for a holocaust, and another for sin: and the priest shall pray for her, and so she shall be cleansed.

End of day 26.